Skip to main content
Judge Grants ‘Compassionate Release’ of Convicted Sex Offender Despite DA’s Objections

August 9, 2024

RIVERSIDE – On Thursday, Aug. 8, 2024, a man convicted of sex crimes with a minor, who has served only about 11 years of his 45-year prison sentence, was granted his release by Riverside County Superior Court Judge Scott P. Williams under California’s “Compassionate Release” law. 

In 2013, Frank Duane Brown, DOB: 11-11-51, pled guilty to six felony counts of forced lewd and lascivious sexual acts on a child under the age of 14 years old, and was sentenced to 45 years in prison. 

After the court received a letter from the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, an initial hearing was held before Judge Williams on July18, 2024, to determine whether Brown qualified for compassionate release due to his medical diagnosis of metastatic liver cancer. The Riverside County District Attorney’s Office opposed the petition for release based on his high risk to public safety and a lack of reliable evidence supporting Brown’s medical condition and outlook. On Aug. 8, 2024, Judge Williams granted the compassionate release petition and ordered Brown released from prison within the next 30 days. 

"While early release has become increasingly common, it is appalling that this release was even being considered given the offender's violent crime against a child,” District Attorney Mike Hestrin said. “Once again, the state places the victim in a traumatic situation, forcing her to fight to keep her perpetrator in prison for the sentence handed down by a court of law. By doing so, victims must relive their devastating experiences. How is this justice?”

DA Hestrin continued, “Our office remains steadfast in opposing the early release of felons to protect victims and ensure public safety. It is outrageous that we must constantly advocate to keep a clearly dangerous sexual predator behind bars for their full sentence. This is a battle we are committed to fighting every single day until this practice is put to an end."

A video statement from the victim can be viewed at: 

For more information on how you can voice your concerns about the release of inmates that can compromise public safety, visit our website at: Paroled Inmates | Riverside County District Attorney (rivcoda.org

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
