Skip to main content
DA’s Office Helps Prevent Release of Convicted Pedophile from Prison

September 25, 2024

RIVERSIDE – On Sept. 25, 2024, a convicted pedophile who kidnapped a 5-year-old girl and raped her was denied parole from a 350-year-sentence by the California Board of Parole Hearings under the elderly parole program.

In 2004, Charles William Mix, DOB: 4-26-55, who was 49 when he committed the crimes, was convicted on various charges including willful child cruelty, kidnapping for rape, and lewd acts on a child under 14.

"The decision to deny early release for Charles Mix reflects the seriousness of the crime and the continued risk he poses to public safety and his victims," said District Attorney Mike Hestrin. "Our responsibility is to ensure justice is served, while recognizing the emotional strain these hearings place on victims, their families, and the community. It's crucial that those who commit serious offenses are held fully accountable for their actions."

The victim, who is now 27 years old, says she is too traumatized to speak publicly, and asked her sister to speak on her behalf.

“Some people aren’t able to be rehabilitated,” said the victim’s sister, Claira Stansbury. “He is a pedophile, and instead of worrying so much about the man who made his choice, they need to be focused on the victim and their families.”

Today’s hearing determined that Mix will have another chance at parole in seven years.

Mix received a 350-year state prison sentence, of which he has served a little more than 20 years thus far.

For more information on how you can voice your concerns about the release of inmates that can compromise public safety, visit our website at: Paroled Inmates | Riverside County District Attorney (rivcoda.org)

If you would like to interview someone from our office or the victim’s sister, Claira Stansbury, please email: media@rivcoda.org.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
