Skip to main content
State Parole Board Rescinds Early Release for Convicted Rapist Serving 170-Year Sentence

July 3, 2024

RIVERSIDE – During a closed hearing held today, July 3, 2024, the state Board of Parole Hearings rescinded the early parole of convicted rapist Cody Woodsen Klemp, who was sentenced to 170 years in prison.


The board’s decision means that Klemp, DOB: 4-16-56, will remain in custody for now and will be referred back to the board for a future hearing regarding the granting of parole.


Today’s hearing was held to determine whether an error was made in November 2023, when the board granted Klemp’s parole under the state’s Elderly Parole Program.

In 1994, case CR50622, the DA’s Office proved the guilt of 68-year-old Klemp, DOB: 4-16-56, and he was sentenced to 170 years in prison for 10 counts of rape, 10 counts of oral copulation on a child, and 20 counts of committing lewd and lascivious acts on a child.

“Although this practice of early release is far from unusual these days, considering the inmate’s particularly violent criminal history and admissions to the parole board itself, it is shocking that such a release would be considered. It is devasting to victims to relive the trauma when justice was already established several years prior,” said District Attorney Mike Hestrin. “Our office will continue to combat the early release of incarcerated felons on behalf of victims and public safety. The absurdity of it all is that we should have to fight so hard to convince the parole board that an obviously dangerous rapist should serve the entirety of his previously handed down prison sentence. But that’s exactly what we do and will continue to do every day until this madness stops.”

Despite this, on Nov. 8, 2023, the state parole board cited Klemp’s ‘low risk for violence,’ age, and marketable skills, as consideration for finding him suitable for parole. In March 2024, after several letters to Gov. Gavin Newsom from the DA’s Office explaining why Klemp should remain in prison, the board rescinded its findings, which kept Klemp from being released that month. Today’s hearing was another step toward attempting to keep Klemp in prison.

"Parole hearings are our opportunity to argue against the release of inmates who we believe continue to pose a danger to the community," said Managing Deputy District Attorney Kamaria Henry. "In recent years, we’ve noticed an increase in the number of individuals who are found suitable for parole well before they have served their original sentence, despite our arguments that the inmate poses a threat to the community."

To combat this issue, the DA’s Office continues to educate the public about changes in parole suitability laws, write letters to the Board of Parole Hearings and the Governor, and appear at parole hearings. A video series about the impact of early releases on victims and their families will be rolled out on social media in the coming months.

One of Klemp’s victims, who is also his niece, says when the board decided to grant his parole last year, she was re-traumatized. She says she knows he will rape again. 
“He will absolutely rape again. He has been committing rapes since he was eighteen years old. The only time he did not rape was when he was in prison,” said the victim who wants to remain anonymous.  
For media inquiries or to request additional statements from the attorneys or victim, please contact: media@rivcoda.org 

 

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
