Skip to main content
Riverside County Child Exploitation Team Arrests Homeland Man on Child Sex Crime Charges

March 27, 2025

RIVERSIDE – A Homeland man has been arrested and charged following an investigation by the Riverside County Child Exploitation Team (RCCET).

David Robledo Jr., DOB: 4-23-88, was arrested on March 20, 2025, after RCCET investigators served a search warrant at his residence in the 27000 block of Collin Drive. Investigators determined that Robledo is an employee of the Lake Elsinore Unified School District and has worked or visited several school sites within the district.

Robledo has been charged by the Riverside County DA’s Office in case FESW2500544 with three felony counts – two counts of lewd and lascivious acts on a child under the age of 14, one count of possession of child sexual assault material; and one misdemeanor count of unlawfully destroying evidence. The crimes against the victim as charged in the current case are alleged to have happened at the residence in Homeland.

Robledo was arraigned on March 23 and pled not guilty to all counts. He now has a felony settlement conference scheduled for April 3 in Department S204 at the Southwest Justice Center in Murrieta.

The investigation started in December 2024 when RCCET received a CyberTipline report from the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. The report showed that an online user was storing child exploitative files on a cloud-based platform.

RCCET investigators authored several search warrants and determined the user of that account reportedly was Robledo. Authorities then served the search warrant at the Homeland residence, resulting in Robledo’s arrest.

RCCET investigators believe there could be other victims and ask that anyone with information about possible inappropriate contact made by Robledo call the RCCET task force at (760) 863-8168.

RCCET is an affiliate of the San Diego Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) task force.

RCCET is led by the DA’s Bureau of Investigation and works in partnership with the Riverside County Sheriff’s Office, Beaumont, Blythe, Desert Hot Springs, Menifee, Murrieta, Indio, and Riverside Police Departments, the California Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation, FBI, Inland Regional Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Task Force, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and U.S. Marshals Service.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
