Skip to main content
Two Mexican Mafia Associates Sentenced to Life for 2021 Attempted Murder of Hemet Man

November 15, 2024

RIVERSIDE – Two known Moreno Valley gang members and associates of the Mexican Mafia have been sentenced to life in prison for the 2021 attempted murder of a Hemet man.

Carl Ray Flores Jr., DOB: 10-16-76; and Brian Ramiro Inocencio, DOB: 2-14-96, were found guilty on Oct. 28, 2024, by a Riverside County jury of attempted murder and dissuading a witness. They were sentenced today, Nov. 15, by Judge Johnnetta Anderson. Flores was sentenced to 10 years plus 75 years to life and Inocencio was sentenced to 47 years to life in prison. 

In 2020, the victim partnered with the Mexican Mafia to boost the profits of his drug business. His handler was Flores, a Moreno Valley gang shotcaller and “lieutenant” to a validated member of the Mexican Mafia, and both were housed at Centinela Prison. Flores directed the victim from prison and organized the sale and distribution of methamphetamine through the victim.

According to a law enforcement investigation, in February 2021, the victim was stopped by Riverside police and arrested for transporting methamphetamine. Following that encounter with law enforcement, the victim told Flores he wanted out of the partnership. Flores told the victim that it would not be possible until he repaid the $5,000 lost for the seized drug shipment. When the victim was unable to pay, Flores directed Inocencio to kill him.  

In August 2021, Inocencio was invited to the victim’s house to celebrate his 50th birthday. When Inocencio arrived, he began to ask the victim about the money he owed Flores, and the victim told him he had been unable to pay it back. Inocencio made a FaceTime call to Flores and handed the phone to the victim. Flores looked at the victim and said, “You’re dead”. Inocencio then shot the victim multiple times then fled to Mexico. The victim survived the shooting.

The Riverside County Gang Impact Team (GIT), which is led by the DA’s Bureau of Investigation, worked with the U.S. Marshal’s Pacific Fugitive Task Force and Mexican law enforcement and were able to locate Inocencio in Tijuana on Sept. 13, 2021. GIT members went to the San Ysidro Point of Entry the next day and took Inocencio into custody.

The DA’s Office pieced together the connection between Inocencio and Flores, and both men were charged with the attempted murder of the victim. As the criminal case moved forward, both defendants actively engaged in attempts to dissuade witnesses from participating in the prosecution. 

The case, BAF2301143, was prosecuted by Deputy DA August Sage and Deputy DA Sam Taloa of the DA’s Gang and Crimes Against Peace Officers (CAPO) Unit.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
