Skip to main content
Sexual battery case dismissed due to lack of jurors

December 14, 2022

RIVERSIDE – A vendor used by the Riverside County Superior Court failed to summon jurors, resulting in a sexual battery case being dismissed.

 

On Dec. 7, 2022, our office announced ready to begin a misdemeanor sexual battery trial. There was an available courtroom to start the trial, however the court stated that there were no available jurors which were needed to begin the trial. There were no jurors available due to the failure of the court’s vendor to summon jurors that day. The court continued the case an additional day.

 

The following day, Dec. 8, there were no available courtrooms, so the case was dismissed by the court. The dismissal of this case, People v. Cruz, RIM2110404, also resulted in the termination of a court protection order for the victim.

 

“This dismissal was caused by the court’s failure to summon jurors on the day when a courtroom was ready and available,” said DA Mike Hestrin. “The public is owed an explanation for the apparent lack of oversight of a third-party vendor contracted by the courts to summon jurors for this trial and for trials across the county for the entire month of December 2022. This crisis is unacceptable and only adds to the daily toll of cases being dismissed by the courts.”

 

The DA’s Office is committed to keeping the public informed regarding this public safety crisis and will continue to periodically release updated information regarding case dismissals as that information becomes available.

 

# # #

Documents to download
NEWS RELEASE -- Sexual battery case dismissed due to lack of jurors
Author: Amy McKenzie

Categories: News ReleaseNumber of views: 1491

Tags: case dismissalssexual batteryjurors

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
