Skip to main content
Gang member sentenced for 2018 murder of Beaumont man and attempted murder of three others

August 22, 2023

RIVERSIDE – A Beaumont gang member was sentenced last week to life in prison without the possibility of parole for the 2018 murder of a 22-year-old man.

Alyais Lavante Jahneal Harper, DOB: 7-24-98, was sentenced by Judge Matthew Perantoni at the Hall of Justice in Banning on Friday, Aug. 18, following statements from the family of the victim, Trejean Malik Williams Cullors. On June 22, a Riverside County jury convicted Harper of one count of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. Jurors also found the special circumstances of being a gang member to be true, as well as firearms and gang activity enhancements. Harper was sentenced to 130 years to life plus life in prison without the possibility of parole.

Very early on Oct. 15, 2018, Harper and two other gang members met up with Cullors and three friends near Fifth Street and Beaumont Avenue in Beaumont.  The two groups had a history of bad blood and, after exchanging words, Harper pulled out a gun and shot Cullors three times. The defendant then turned and fired at Cullors’ friends, who ran into a nearby fast-food restaurant to take cover. Those three victims were not physically injured. 

Harper was arrested two days after the murder by members of the Riverside County Gang Impact Team (GIT) in Carlsbad, California. Lead by the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office, GIT is a multi-agency task force targeting the apprehension and conviction of criminal street gang members and violent offenders. 

The case, BAF1801308, was prosecuted by Deputy DA Marcus Garrett of the DA’s Major Crimes Division.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
