Skip to main content
Task Force Works to Protect Community from Sex Offenders During Halloween

October 31, 2023

RIVERSIDE – As Halloween approaches, the Riverside County Child Exploitation Team (RCCET) is committed to proactively monitoring and tracking registered sex offenders to ensure their compliance with registration requirements, and to protect our children through community education.

So far in 2023, the team arrested 91 individuals and executed 441 search warrants from Blythe to Temecula. The operations take place after a thorough investigation and subsequent search warrant service at the home of the suspected predator. While at the home, K9s Solo and Chewie aide in the detection of electronics containing the potential child abuse content and when found, become the vital evidence to support the allegations and prosecute those who commit internet crimes and prey on our children.

RCCET offers some tips to protect your family on Halloween and year-round.

• Familiarize yourself with local sex offender registries and databases, which are publicly accessible.
• Sign up for notifications or alerts from law enforcement agencies to stay updated on any changes in your area.
• Encourage open communication with your children about personal boundaries, consent, and the importance of reporting any uncomfortable or suspicious encounters.
• Monitor your child's online activities and educate them about the potential dangers of sharing personal information online.
• Be cautious about whom you connect with on social media and use privacy settings to protect your personal information.

According to the United States Attorney’s Office, there have been significant recent developments in other child exploitation cases being prosecuted by at the federal level, including a life sentence imposed on an offender who filmed his sexual assaults of disabled children.

If you have concerns or questions about sex offender information in your area, please contact your local law enforcement agency or visit their official website.

RCCET is an affiliate of the San Diego Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) task force. It is led by the DA’s Bureau of Investigation and works in partnership with the Riverside County Sheriff’s Office, Beaumont, Blythe, Desert Hot Springs, Menifee, Murrieta, and Riverside Police Departments, the California Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation, FBI, Inland Regional Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Task Force, US Department of Homeland Security, and US Marshals Service.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
