Skip to main content
'Snake' burglar pleads guilty to stealing from 54 businesses

July 27, 2023

RIVERSIDE -- The man dubbed the ‘snake burglar’ for his attempts to slide along the ground to avoid detection while breaking into businesses, entered guilty pleas to 54 counts of felony burglary today.

Christopher MichaelPaul Jackson, DOB: 7-31-90, was immediately sentenced to seven months in jail, 12 years of mandatory supervision, and ordered to pay restitution of at least $158,235 to his many victims.

Despite the quantity of convictions, because of the ‘non-violent’ nature of his crimes, and as a direct result of Proposition 47 and AB109, Jackson was not eligible to receive any prison time. 

Due to California’s Penal Code section 4019, which gives county jail inmates ‘good time’ credit for time in custody, Jackson was expected to be released from custody after today’s sentencing.

The guilty pleas today involve burglaries at 54 different locations in Riverside and Moreno Valley, including restaurants, health clinics, medical offices, and beauty salons. Jackson has been ordered to stay at least 100 yards away from those businesses. 

As part of his sentence, Jackson will also be required to complete a six-month residential substance abuse treatment program, and to wear a GPS monitoring bracelet for the duration of his 12-year mandatory supervision.

“Unfortunately, this case, although uniquely named, is not unique in California,” said District Attorney Michael Hestrin. “It is unconscionable that a habitual offender like Christopher Jackson can steal hundreds of thousands of dollars from hard-working people, admit to it, and legally serve less time in jail than the time it will take his hundreds of victims to recoup their losses.”

This case, RIF2302419, was prosecuted by Deputy District Attorney Courtney Breaux of the Felony Prosecutions Unit of the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office.
 

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
