Skip to main content
DA Mike Hestrin appoints Natasha Crawford as next Chief Investigator

June 12, 2023

COUNTYWIDE – DA Mike Hestrin announced today, June 12, 2023, the appointment of Natasha Crawford as the 11th Chief of the Bureau of Investigation for the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office, effective June 15, 2023. With an extensive background in law enforcement and a proven track record of leadership, Natasha Crawford brings a wealth of experience and expertise to this critical role.

“I am proud to announce the appointment of Natasha Crawford to Chief of the Bureau of Investigation for the District Attorney’s Office,” said DA Mike Hestrin. “Natasha brings a strong background in law enforcement and a deep commitment to public safety. I have full confidence in her ability to lead our Bureau of Investigation and to enhance our efforts to bring justice to the residents of Riverside County.”

Crawford’s appointment by DA Hestrin replaces outgoing Chief of Investigators Joe DelGiudice who is retiring on June 14, 2023. Chief DelGiudice was with the DA’s Office for 19 years and served as the Chief Investigator since his appointment in 2015.

As Chief of the Bureau, Crawford will be responsible for overseeing all investigative operations within the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office. This includes managing Bureau staff of more than 120 highly skilled sworn investigators and an additional 70 non-sworn support team members, which includes investigative technicians, computer forensic specialists, audio-visual technicians, dispatchers, and clerical support.

Chief Crawford has 22 years of law enforcement experience, including the last seven years with the DA’s Office. Crawford joined the DA’s Office in 2016 after 15 years with the Redlands Police Department where she served as a Field Training Officer, Community Policing Officer, a member of the Multiple Enforcement Team, and a Special Victims Unit Detective. Since joining the DA’s Office, Chief Crawford has contributed significantly to the Child Abduction Unit, Organized Crime Unit, Sexual Assault and Child Abuse Unit, Special Prosecutions Unit, and the Domestic Violence Unit. She has worked as a Senior Investigator, Supervising Investigator, Commander overseeing Eastern, Southwest, and Mid-County operations, and most recently has served as the Assistant Chief of the Bureau of Investigation since November 2021.

Chief Crawford earned her Bachelor of Arts in Government from the University of Redlands and a Master of Arts in Organizational Leadership from Chapman University. She was raised in Riverside County and is passionate about protecting the community.

“It is an honor and a privilege to lead the District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation,” said Chief Crawford. “I am passionate about creating an environment that encourages growth and fosters collaboration.”

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
