Skip to main content
Regional Cold Case Unit Seeks Public’s Help to Identify Family of 1989 Murder Victim

April 17, 2024

 

 RIVERSIDE – The Riverside County Regional Cold Case Unit is seeking the public’s assistance in identifying the family of a victim murdered in1989. 

In March 1989, the body of a male murder victim was found in a ravine off Highway 79, south of Interstate 10, in the Beaumont area. The victim had a single gunshot wound to his chest. When his body was found, the victim was wearing a “Cacharel” brand green and tan short-sleeve shirt and “DeeCee” brand white jeans work pants. 

This cold case remained unsolved until recent months when the Regional Cold Case Unit successfully identified the victim as Jorge Lopez-Serano. The Mexican Consulate confirmed his identity and revealed that Lopez-Serrano had a wife and children while residing in La Paz, Mexico in 1987. 

Lopez-Serrano was a Mexican National and had been arrested several times in the late 1980s, including once by U.S. Border Patrol agents in San Diego on suspicion of smuggling undocumented immigrants into the United States and by Los Angeles police officers on suspicion of vehicle theft. He was known to use multiple names and multiple dates of birth during those arrests. 

To bring closure to this case, Cold Case Unit investigators are appealing to the public for any information that may lead to the identity of family members of Lopez-Serrano. This includes details about missing persons or any other relevant information that could assist in the investigation. 

A photo of victim Lopez-Serrano is attached for reference. 

Anyone with information regarding Lopez-Serrano or his family is asked to contact Investigator 

Jason Corey of the Regional Cold Case Unit. Any information provided will be treated as confidential upon request. 

For updates and further information regarding the Lopez-Serrano case, please contact 951-955-5567 or coldcaseunit@rivcoda.org 

The Regional Cold Case Homicide Team is comprised of members of the DA’s Office Bureau of Investigation, the Riverside County Sheriff-Coroner Department, the FBI, and the Riverside Police Department. The team is available to assist in the investigation of cold case homicides for all Riverside County law enforcement agencies. 

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
