Skip to main content
First DA Citizens' Academy in Spanish

January 5, 2024

The Riverside County District Attorney's Office announces the launch of its first Spanish-language Citizens' Academy, "The Good Neighbor," an effort to reach out to the Hispanic community and empower residents to learn how the judicial process works, from arrest to sentencing.

Residents are invited to enroll in this six-session course, once-a-week, that provides information on how the District Attorney's Office operates in Riverside County.

Participants will receive a tutorial on legal proceedings in California with seminars led by prosecutors, investigators, collaborative law enforcement agencies, and victim advocates.

The program begins on Thursday, April 11 at the County Law Building at 82995 Highway 111 in the City of Indio, and runs from 6 to 9 p.m. The DA’s Citizens’ Academy in Spanish culminates on May 16 with a graduation ceremony led by District Attorney Mike Hestrin.

Resolve concerns about how charges are filed and who makes those decisions, learn about the resources available in our community, get involved in your neighborhood and connect with organizations and people who are working toward making our streets safer.

Participants must fill out an application and include a resume to be considered for the inaugural Citizens’ Academy in Spanish. Space is limited.

Presenting the program in Spanish is part of the Riverside County DA’s Office’s commitment to involving the Hispanic community and providing them with information that fosters trust. 54 percent of Riverside County is Spanish speaking, and learning more about legal rights, victim compensation, and other judicial processes is important to create positive community engagement.

For more information call (760) 863-8216 x 43304, visit rivcoda.org/es/citizens-academy or write to us at outreach@rivcoda.org.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
