Skip to main content
18.5 kilograms of fentanyl seized by Riverside County Gang Impact Team

December 19, 2022

RIVERSIDE – During the month of December, the Riverside County Gang Impact Team (GIT), in conjunction with the U.S. Postal service, investigated the illegal shipping of fentanyl through the U.S. mail resulting in the seizure of 18.5 kilograms of fentanyl.

 

That 18.5 kilograms of fentanyl has an estimated street value of more than $3 million dollars and is potentially more than nine million lethal doses.

 

An earlier investigation by the U.S. Postal Service resulted in the issuance of a federal arrest warrant for Ignacio Alcala, DOB: 9-5-85, alleging drug trafficking charges. On Dec. 13, the GIT team arrested Alcala as he was leaving his apartment in the 3800 block of Devonshire Avenue in the city of Hemet. A subsequent search of the apartment resulted in the seizure of 18.5 kilograms of suspected fentanyl, a half-pound of suspected methamphetamine, a fully automatic “ghost” gun pistol, and a second firearm that was previously reported as stolen.

 

Fentanyl is a manmade, synthetic opiate that is less expensive than other opiates and is highly addictive. It also is 50 times more powerful that heroin and 100 times more that morphine.

 

Law enforcement agencies across the United States are finding fentanyl in nearly all illegal drugs. Hundreds of people die every year in Riverside County due to fentanyl poisoning. Victims, including young people, are illegally obtaining pills they believe are oxycodone or Percocet but instead contain fentanyl. It only takes two milligrams of fentanyl to potentially be a fatal dose and a teaspoon contains 5,000 milligrams.

 

Fentanyl is killing our residents at an alarming rate, and it is affecting all races/ethnicities, sociodemographic groups, and ages. Riverside County recently launched a multi-department public awareness campaign about the dangers of fentanyl. To learn more visit: www.facesoffentanyl.net

 

The Gang Impact Team is supervised by the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office Bureau of Investigation and staffed by agents from the DA’s Bureau of Investigation, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), U.S. Marshal's Service (USMS), the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives (ATF), the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, and detectives and resources from the Beaumont, Cathedral City, Desert Hot Springs, Hemet, Murietta, and Riverside Police Departments.

 

# # #

Documents to download
NEWS RELEASE -- 18.5 kilograms of fentanyl seized by Riverside County Gang Impact Team
 
 
Author: Amy McKenzie

Categories: News ReleaseNumber of views: 1625

Tags: GITfentanylGang Impact Teamfentanyl killsBureau of Investigationdangers of fentanylfaces of fentanyl

Latest News

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim

May 11, 2026

Major Child Exploitation Operation Identifies 500+ Suspected Offenders, Results in 42 Arrests
