Skip to main content
DA’s Office Launches Second 'Good Neighbor' Classes to Empower the Latino Community

January 7, 2025

INDIO – After a successful Spanish-speaking Citizen’s Academy in April of 2024, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office is moving forward with the second "Good Neighbor" initiative.

Being that 52% of the population in Riverside County identify as Hispanic and 34% report speaking Spanish at home, this outreach program is designed to connect, inform, and empower the Hispanic community through classes and seminars designed to teach attendees about how the judicial process works.

"Empowering our Spanish-speaking community goes beyond simply translating information; it involves cultivating understanding and meaningful engagement," said DA Hestrin. "By offering educational opportunities, we equip our Spanish-speaking residents with the knowledge necessary to actively contribute to their own public safety. Together, we can forge stronger, safer neighborhoods through collaboration and informed participation in our community."

Residents are invited to register for this six-session course, held once a week, where participants will receive a tutorial on the judicial process led by prosecutors, investigators, victim services experts, police officers, and other public safety officials.

The program begins on May 15, 2025, and runs to June 19, 2025, at the Palm Desert Sheriff's Station Community Room (73705 Gerald Ford Drive, Palm Desert), from 6 pm to 8 pm, concluding on June 19 with a graduation ceremony led by DA Hestrin.

Offering the program in Spanish is part of our organization's commitment to informing our Hispanic community about legal processes, encouraging them to actively participate in the safety of their neighborhoods, and to feel empowered to take an active role in community safety.

Those who want to participate must complete an application and attach a resume. Space is limited. For more information, call 760-863-8216 ext. 43304 or email us at outreach@rivcoda.org to register.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
