Skip to main content
Two fugitives apprehended in Mexico and returned to Riverside County

February 15, 2023

RIVERSIDE – Two fugitives charged with murder and attempted murder in separate domestic violence-related cases, were recently located by the Riverside County District Attorney’s Fugitive Apprehension Unit in Mexico and have been returned to Riverside County to face charges.

 

Lorenzo Castellanos, DOB: 08-13-50, was located and arrested in Mexico by the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) and the Mexican Fugitive Task Force. The DA’s Office Fugitive Apprehension Unit worked with the Office of Internal Affairs to prepare and submit a foreign extradition warrant for Lorenzo, who is a Mexican citizen.

 

Castellanos is charged with murder and child endangerment for a crime that was committed in Rubidoux in January 2001. The victim in the case had been in a relationship with Castellanos and was the mother of their child. She had been stabbed numerous times.

 

Jose Barron, DOB: 06-13-66, was also located and arrested in Mexico. The DA’s Office Fugitive Apprehension Unit worked with the Office of International Affairs to prepare and submit a foreign extradition warrant for Barron, who is a Mexican citizen.

 

Barron is charged with attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon, domestic violence, and aggravated mayhem for a crime committed in Riverside on Sept. 9, 2014. The victim in this case was attacked with a machete and received substantial injuries.

 

With the cooperation of USMS authorities in Mexico, both Castellanos and Barron were transported from Mexico City to Los Angeles and turned over to the custody of PSWRFTF (Pacific Southwest Regional Fugitive Task Force) team 6. Both defendants were booked at Robert Presley Detention and are awaiting trial. 

 

Team 6 is comprised of investigators and agents from the Riverside County DA’s Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Marshals Service (USMS), California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitations (CDCR), the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, and detectives and resources from the Beaumont, Cathedral City, Murrieta, and Riverside Police Departments.

 

Lorenzo Castellanos, RIF098892, is scheduled to be arraigned on Feb. 24, 2023, in Riverside County Superior Court.

 

Jose Barron, RIF1403056, was arraigned on Feb. 10, 2023, in Riverside County Superior Court.

 

# # #

Documents to download
NEWS RELEASE -- Two fugitives apprehended in Mexico and returned to Riverside County
 
 
Author: Amy McKenzie

Categories: News ReleaseNumber of views: 7599

Tags: fugitivemurder chargeFugitive Apprehension Unit

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
