Skip to main content
DA’s Office Launches “Fighting Fentanyl” Campaign: “When Fentanyl Kills, We Can Prosecute for Murder"

October 23, 2024

RIVERSIDE – The Riverside County District Attorney’s Office is launching a new campaign to continue raising awareness about the deadly dangers of fentanyl and highlight the office's aggressive prosecution of those who deal this potentially lethal drug.

The "Fighting Fentanyl" campaign underscores District Attorney Mike Hestrin’s zero-tolerance policy toward anyone who sells or distributes fentanyl, especially when it results in a victim's death. The initiative aims to educate the public on the office’s prosecution efforts and reinforce its commitment to holding dealers accountable.

This predominantly social media-driven campaign will feature a four-part video series, a victim-centered vlog, and several informative graphics. Every Friday, through the end of 2024, the DA’s Office will post important information about our ongoing fentanyl prosecution efforts.

Additionally, a digital billboard spreading awareness of fentanyl prosecution will be visible throughout Riverside County. The office has also added a real-time Fentanyl Homicide Prosecution Dashboard to its website, allowing residents to view data about our current fentanyl-related homicide cases: Dangers of Fentanyl | Riverside County District Attorney.

“The message is clear: If you push poison in Riverside County, you will be prosecuted,” said District Attorney Mike Hestrin. “It is my responsibility to protect the people of Riverside County from the catastrophic impact of fentanyl. If you sell or distribute this drug and someone dies, you will face murder charges. We were the first in California to charge fentanyl dealers with murder, and we continue to lead the way. Fentanyl is a poison, and we won’t tolerate it in our community."

In 2021, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office became the first in the state to file murder charges in fentanyl-related deaths, quickly establishing itself as a leader in prosecuting these cases. In a groundbreaking 2023 case, a jury convicted a Temecula man of second-degree murder for the fentanyl-related death of a 26-year-old woman—the first trial of more than 30 homicide cases filed in the county involving fentanyl poisonings. As of the time of this news release, Riverside County has 20 active fentanyl homicide cases, involving 23 defendants and 20 victims.

The DA’s Crime Prevention Unit has conducted over 150 presentations in schools throughout the county, reaching nearly 20,000 students, teachers, and parents about the lethal dangers of fentanyl.  As part of the outreach efforts, the “Fighting Fentanyl” campaign also includes informational handouts and promotional materials that will be distributed at these presentations.

The "Fighting Fentanyl" campaign is launching during Red Ribbon Week (Oct. 23-31), the nation’s longest-running drug prevention campaign, which brings communities together to take a stand against drug abuse.

Image
Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
