Skip to main content
Communities Unite for Vigils During National Crime Victims’ Rights Week

April 26, 2024

 

 RIVERSIDE – Each year, National Crime Victims’ Rights Week is dedicated to recognizing the pain and suffering that families endure when their loved one becomes the victim of a violent crime. 

District Attorney Mike Hestrin hosted two candlelight vigils, one in Palm Desert on Tuesday, April 23, and one in Riverside on Wednesday, April 24, 2024, as a way of reminding these families that their loved ones are not forgotten and justice is being pursued. 

At the Riverside vigil while addressing hundreds gathered in front of the Historic Courthouse, DA Hestrin emphasized, “We have to go on speaking the truth about crime and about victims. No matter the cost, we have to refuse to accept victimization as some kind of new normal. We are going to continue to insist that the victim’s voice be heard.” 

This year’s keynote speakers included: 

In Palm Desert, Sophia Flores, mother of Manual Hernandez, bravely shared her story of loss and resilience. Sophia’s son was killed by her nephew in 2014 following an altercation at a family party. Sophia’s story resonated with attendees as she told them how she navigated both the criminal justice system and her personal journey toward healing, all while struggling with rebuilding her life after her tragic loss. 

In Riverside, Catherine Barajas, mother of Anthony Michael Barajas, recounted the day in 2021 that forever changed her life. What began as a simple outing to the movies in Corona turned into a nightmare when her son was tragically killed while watching a film with a friend. Amidst her profound sorrow, Catherine found herself thrust into a complex criminal justice system. Catherine encouraged others to participate in the criminal justice process and shared how she wants her son to be remembered for his many acts of kindness. 

Following the heartfelt speeches, the names of deceased victims were solemnly read at each venue, accompanied by the lighting of candles of remembrance. After the candlelight vigil in Riverside, those in attendance were invited to visit the Victims Memorial Wall at the nearby DA’s Office where names of hundreds of those who have died from violent crime are forever engraved in the black granite wall. 

This annual event, which has taken place since 2004, serves as a tribute to those lost to senseless violence. The Division of Victim Services works tirelessly each year to ensure that those in attendance feel heard and supported. 

For media inquiries or to request video footage, images, or statements from the speakers at either event, please contact: media@rivcoda.org 

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
