Skip to main content
California for Safer Communities Coalition Submits Over 900,000 Signatures to Qualify Homelessness, Drug Addiction, and Theft Reduction Act for November Ballot

April 18, 2024

 

 RIVERSIDE – Today, the Californians for Safer Communities Coalition announced, that it will submit over 900,000 voter signatures to qualify the Homelessness, Drug Addiction, and Theft Reduction Act (Initiative 23-0017A1) to qualify for the November General Election ballot. To qualify the measure for the November 2024 ballot, the law requires 546,651valid signatures. 

The bipartisan measure is focused on improving safety in every community and neighborhood in California. It focuses narrowly on accountability measures for repeat offenders of theft and drug traffickers of serious drugs like fentanyl, while incentivizing and encouraging more individuals to participate in and complete drug treatment programs. The measure creates a deterrent for repeat offenders and redirects addicts towards treatment rather than incarceration. 

"We must prioritize the safety of our communities. This proposed ballot measure does just that, fixing prior legislation that has harmed public safety. I am grateful for the public’s support of signing ballots to qualify this essential bill onto the ballot,” DA Hestrin said. “It is time for common sense reforms that holds people accountable for their criminal behavior and ensures justice for our community members.” 

Passed in 2014, Prop 47 achieved notable success in making California’s criminal justice system more equitable. However, it led to unintended consequences over the past decade — repeat and often organized retail theft, inner-city store closings, and difficulty convincing people to seek drug and mental health treatment — that can only be corrected by the voters at the ballot box with commonsense changes to Prop 47. It is time for meaningful reforms to our justice system, including Prop 47, that ensure our communities are safe. 

The proposed ballot measure will: 

• Hold those who are committing repeated retail theft and fentanyl sales crimes accountable, for the safety and health of our communities. 

• Create accountability for repeat smash and grab offenders who are driving up costs for all Californians and chasing retailers out of the state. 

• Bring back incentives and accountability that are needed for individuals to get into necessary drug treatment and job training programs -- helping them begin new lives. Currently those arrested multiple times for hard drug use currently have no incentive to choose treatment with no consequences. 

 

For more information, go to www.CASafeCommunities.com. 

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
