Skip to main content
Riverside County DA’s Office Marks Anniversary of Marsy’s Law

November 2, 2023

On Nov. 4, 2008, the Victim’s Bill of Rights, otherwise known as Marsy’s Law, was approved by voters of the State of California, and victims were enshrined with rights and due processes, which were not afforded to the law’s namesake.

Marsy’s Law offers 17 rights and protections to crime victims and their families.  It is named for Marsalee (Marsy) Ann Nicholas, a student at UC Santa Barbara, who was stalked and murdered by her boyfriend in 1983.  Just one week after her murder, Marsy’s family was confronted by her killer, who, unknown to them, had already been released on bail.  Marsy’s brother sponsored the bill, which put California at the forefront of victims’ rights.

Starting in September, on the National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims, and leading up to the 15th anniversary of the passage of Marsy’s law, on Nov. 4, 2023, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office introduced ‘Marsy’s Law Mondays.’ This video series, which is provided in both English and Spanish, aims to empower our community and shed light on the crucial topic of victims’ rights. Each week, a representative from the Riverside County DA’s Office Division of Victim Services (DVS) provides information about one of the rights which are now part of California’s constitution.  

Among the protected rights are:

Fairness and respect
Protection from the defendant
Victim safety considerations in setting bail and release conditions
Notice of public proceedings
Speedy trial

“The intention of this series, and our advocacy for victims, is to educate survivors about their rights to accountability and fairness,” said Melissa Donaldson, Division of Victim Services Director. “Marsy’s Law is a guiding rule of law that helps ensure victims’ voices are heard, and their rights are enforced throughout California.”

DVS specialists at the Riverside County DA’s Office help victims and their families navigate the criminal justice system. From January through September of this year, the Riverside County DA’s Office Division of Victim Services served 30,434 victims and witnesses and provided 325,975 services.

The Office provides victims and witnesses with status updates about their cases, can accompany them to court, helps in filing for crime victim compensation, and links them with services such as therapy, support programs, counseling referrals and emergency assistance. DVS can be reached at (951) 955-5450.

Latest News

June 8, 2026

Kroger Settles California Lawsuit Over Misleading Calorie Labels

June 3, 2026

Loma Linda University Health to Pay $7.5 Million Over Improper Disposal of Waste and Patient Information

May 29, 2026

Rebecca Haro Pleads Guilty To the Death of Her Infant Son

May 26, 2026

Investigators Seek Public's Help in Identifying 1994 Homicide Victim
