Brooklyn Man Sentenced To 184 Years in Prison For Statutory Rape - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 30, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced To 184 Years in Prison For Statutory Rape
Defendant Had Sexual Relationship With Teen Beginning When She Was 13 Years Old
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 38-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 184 years in prison following his conviction last month on statutory rape and other charges stemming from a sexual relationship he had with the victim beginning when she was 13 years old. He was also convicted of videotaping some of the sexual encounters as well as videotaping additional encounters of her having group sex with himself and other men.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant degraded and violated an innocent young girl who will likely never be the same. Today’s sentence reflects the seriousness of his deplorable acts and guarantees that this sexual predator will spend the rest of his life behind bars, where he belongs.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mario Valdiviezo, 38, of  Borough Park. He was today sentenced by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent DelGiudice to 184 years in prison. The defendant was convicted of two counts of use of a child in a sexual performance, five counts of second-degree rape, five counts of second-degree criminal sexual act, nine counts of third-degree rape, 12 counts of third-degree criminal sexual act and one count of endangering the welfare of a child following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, the defendant, who was a co-worker of the victim’s mother, had a sexual relationship with the victim from September 6, 2007 to October 15, 2010. The defendant was 29 years old when the relationship began and the victim was 13 years old. In addition, the defendant videotaped sexual encounters between himself and the victim as well as between the victim, himself  and other men.
The relationship ended, according to trial testimony, when the victim moved out of state. It was revealed when the victim’s cousin, who was dating the defendant, found videotapes of his encounter with the child and contacted the police.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
