Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Double Murder in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 13, 2015
Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Double Murder in East New York
Faces 50 Years to Life in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 60-year-old man has been convicted of two counts of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon for the 2013 shooting death of two men outside a home in East New York.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant engaged in senseless gun violence on the streets of Brooklyn and ended up shooting and killing two men.  He will now spend a good part of his life behind bars for committing such deadly violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Raul Correa, 61, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was convicted yesterday afternoon of two counts of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog. The defendant will be sentenced on December 2, 2015 at which time he faces 50 years to life in prison on the top two counts.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 18, 2013 at approximately 8:30 p.m., outside of a home located at 202 Pennsylvania Avenue, in East New York, the defendant fired shots at the victims, striking and killing both men. The shooting was allegedly in retaliation for an assault earlier that evening, according to testimony. The victims were not involved in the earlier assault.
The case was investigated by Detective Brian Champion of the New York City Police Department’s 75
th
Precinct Detective Squad and Detective Richard Amato of the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Emily Dean of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
