Bushwick Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life In Prison for Stabbing Death of Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 15, 2015
Bushwick Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life In Prison for Stabbing Death of Girlfriend
Victim Found In Her Bed, Beaten About the Face and With Stab Wounds to the Neck
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 43-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for the stabbing death of his girlfriend. The victim was found dead in their Bushwick apartment days after the murder when her family became concerned because they could not reach her and alerted authorities.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant not only repeatedly stabbed and brutally beat his girlfriend, but he also then left her in a locked apartment to die alone. We hope that his long prison sentence will provide some comfort to Ms. Figueroa’s heartbroken family.”
District Attorney Thompson identified the defendant as Nathan Rosa, 43, of 849 Flushing Avenue in Bushwick. The defendant was today sentenced by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Ruth Shillingford to the maximum term of 25 years to life in prison. He was convicted of second-degree murder and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon on March 23, 2015, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, in the early morning hours of April 30, 2011, the defendant and his girlfriend, Angie Figueroa, 40, returned to the apartment they shared at 101 Humboldt Street in Bushwick, and sometime after that the defendant stabbed the victim twice in the neck, lacerating her jugular vein. She had also been badly beaten about the face and head.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, the victim’s family tried to reach her without success as she did not return their telephone calls or text messages. When asked where she was, the defendant, who had with him the victim’s two Pomeranian dogs, claimed he did not know. This alarmed her family because she was never without her beloved dogs, so they called police. Ultimately, the New York City Fire Department broke down the apartment door. The victim’s body was found in bed covered by a comforter.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
