Gang Member Who Sexually Assaulted Woman during Violent Home Invasion Robbery Sentenced To 15 Years in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 12, 2015
Gang Member Who Sexually Assaulted Woman during Violent
Home Invasion Robbery Sentenced To 15 Years in Prison
Terrorized Two Residents and Took Turns with Cohorts in Violating Victim at Gunpoint
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a Brooklyn gang member was sentenced to 15 years in prison for a violent armed home invasion in which he and three others broke into a Brooklyn apartment, robbed two roommates at knife- and gun-point, then took turns sodomizing the woman while she was hogtied and blindfolded. The sentence will run consecutively with a 10-year sentence the defendant is already serving on an unrelated case for a total of 25 years in prison.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant and other gang members broke into a home, terrorized and brutalized the occupants, and repeatedly sexually assaulted an innocent woman at gunpoint while she was tied up and blindfolded. This sentence, which will run consecutively with an earlier 10-year sentence given to the defendant, reflects the horrendous and vile criminal acts that he committed and will serve to protect society from this dangerous and violent criminal.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Derrin Dyson, 21, of 1563 Pacific Street in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Albert Tomei to 15 years in prison, following his conviction on first-degree criminal sexual act, first-degree sexual abuse, first-degree burglary, first-degree robbery and related charges. He was found guilty on October 21, 2015 after a non-jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on the afternoon of January 30, 2012, the defendant and three accomplices – all members of the Brower Boys gang – used a cohort’s home to gain access to the roof of a building in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. They disengaged the video security system, covered their faces with masks or bandanas and broke into an apartment in an adjoining building.
They used a .22 caliber revolver and knives to physically threaten the two occupants of the apartment. They blindfolded them and tied their hands behind their backs, placing the man in the bathroom and the woman on a bed in her bedroom. The defendant demanded the PIN numbers of the victims’ debit and credit cards, left the apartment and withdrew over $1,000 from the female victim’s account, according to the evidence.
When he returned, the defendant orally sodomized the victim while she was tied up on the bed with a gun to her head, after two of his accomplices had already sodomized her. Upon leaving, the perpetrators sold most of the stolen goods, including a MacBook laptop and an iPod, in a nearby deli. The male victim later identified a Movado watch that was recovered in the defendant’s bedroom as belonging to him, testimony showed. The defendant was also implicated by DNA evidence.
The District Attorney said that the three other accomplices have previously pleaded guilty to this crime. Christopher Scott, 21, was sentenced to seven years in prison, Dezhaun Samuels, 22, was sentenced to 16 years in prison and the case against the third accomplice, who was 13 at the time of the incident, was adjudicated in Family Court. Dyson is currently serving a 10-year prison sentence on an unrelated robbery and conspiracy to which he pleaded guilty on July 17, 2015. That term will run consecutively to the sentence he received today for a total term of imprisonment of 25 years.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Michael Perkins and Assistant District Attorney Grace Brainard, under the supervision of Nicole Chavis, Chief of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the overall Supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
