Flatlands Man Sentenced to 20 years to Life in Fatal Stabbing - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 3, 2015
Flatlands Man Sentenced to 20 years to Life in Fatal Stabbing
Defendant Stabbed Acquaintance 29 Times During Altercation
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 25-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years to life in prison for stabbing an acquaintance 29 times following a dispute and causing his death while they were socializing in the defendant’s rented room in Flatlands last year.
District Attorney Ken Thompson said, “This defendant brutally stabbed the victim 29 times, and took his life in the process. He will now have many years to think about how he let a simple dispute lead him to commit a senseless murder.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Joshua Simser, 25, of Flatlands, Brooklyn. He was convicted of second-degree murder on October 28, 2015 following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alan Marrus, who today sentenced the defendant to 20 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on April 15, 2014, the defendant and an acquaintance, Rufino Sanchez, 41, were socializing in the defendant’s rented room when the defendant stabbed Sanchez 29 times following a dispute, killing him. It is unclear what the dispute was about, though when his body was discovered the victim had multiple stab wounds to the face and neck.
Following the murder, the defendant hid the body in a storage container and left it in his room for four days, according to testimony, before eventually confessing to his employer. The employer notified police, who discovered the body.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Melissa Carvajal, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
