Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Stabbing Death of Wife Following Argument in Bay Ridge Apartment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 9, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Stabbing Death of Wife Following Argument in Bay Ridge Apartment
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 54-year-old Bay Ridge man has been sentenced to 18 years in prison following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter last month for the 2014 stabbing death of his 46-year-old wife following an argument inside of their apartment.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Today’s sentence guarantees that this defendant is held accountable for the senseless slaying of his wife, the mother of his four children, who, by this guilty plea and sentence, were spared the trauma of a trial and ensured a measure of justice for their mother.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Hasan Rugova, 54, of 101 Marine Avenue, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today to a determinate term of 18 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 20, 2014, at approximately 2 a.m., at 101 Marine Avenue, the defendant’s 14-year-old son observed the defendant, his father, repeatedly stabbing his wife, Gyltene Rugova (who was the child’s mother), in the chest and neck with a knife and intervened, pulling the defendant off of his wife. The defendant then stabbed himself in the stomach. The teen sustained a slash to his arm and was treated at the hospital with stitches and released.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, the stabbing occurred after Gyltene Rugova indicated she wanted a divorce from the defendant. Gyltene Rugova died as a result of multiple stab wounds to her chest and neck, according to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Cynthia A. Lynch and Joan Erskine, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Michelle L. Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
