Brooklyn Man Sentenced To 35 Years in Prison for 2014 New Year’s Day Shooting Outside Flatbush Nightclub; Nine Shots Fired, Injuring Two Men - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 26, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced To 35 Years in Prison for 2014 New Year’s Day
Shooting Outside Flatbush Nightclub; Nine Shots Fired, Injuring Two Men
Shooting Captured on Videotape Surveillance Camera
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 31-year-old Brownsville man was sentenced to 35 years in prison after being convicted earlier this month of one count of second-degree attempted murder and one count of first-degree assault for opening fire outside a Flatbush nightclub on January 1, 2014, firing nine shots and striking two victims.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant could have easily killed someone when he opened fire outside that nightclub. He will now pay a steep price for the mayhem and injuries he caused through his senseless acts of gun violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Donald Munnerlyn, 31, of Marconi Place in Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was convicted of one count of second-degree attempted murder and one count of first-degree assault following a jury trial earlier this month before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice.  He was sentenced yesterday to 23 years in prison for the attempted murder of Richard Cannon and 12 years in prison for the assault on Yves Edouard. Justice Del Giudice ordered the sentences to run consecutive to one another, and also sentenced the defendant to five years’ post-release supervision.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 1, 2014, at approximately 4:45 a.m., the defendant and one of the victims, Richard Cannon, engaged in a fist fight inside a nightclub called Temptations, located at 2210 Church Avenue in Flatbush. They were separated by security. At approximately 5 a.m., the victim was outside of the club with his friends when the defendant walked up to him and fired nine times. He was shot once in the abdomen and once in the back. An innocent bystander, Yves Edouard, who was waiting in line to enter the club, was shot twice in the right leg.
Furthermore, according to trial testimony, the head of security from the club identified the defendant as the shooter in a surveillance video recovered from the club.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Joshua Lee and Dovid Wolosow, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau IV, Green Zone, under the supervision of David Klestzick, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
