Brooklyn Man Who Stabbed 75-Year-Old Woman and Left Her for Dead Sentenced to 75 Years in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Brooklyn Man Who Stabbed 75-Year-Old Woman and
Left Her for Dead Sentenced to 75 Years in Prison
Defendant, a Friend of the Victim’s Grandson, Forced His Way into Apartment
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a Brownsville man has been sentenced to 75 years in prison following his conviction on second-degree attempted murder and other charges for stabbing an elderly woman repeatedly and leaving her seriously injured on her apartment floor.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant savagely stabbed a defenseless 75-year-old woman all over her body, robbed her of what little money she had and then left her to die. He deserves every day of his 75-year prison sentence.”
The District Attorney said that the defendant, Shytuan Breazil, 23, of Bristol Street, in Brownsville, Brooklyn, was today sentenced to 75 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent M. Del Guidice. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree burglary and first-degree robbery.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on September 18, 2013, at about 2 p.m., the victim, Alvita Morales, 75, was in her apartment on Warren Street in the Warren Gardens/Wycoff Housing Development, when she heard a knock on the door and looked through the peephole. She saw the defendant, whom she recognized as a friend of her grandson, and opened the door to tell him her grandson was not staying with her. The defendant then placed his book bag on the floor and said he had something for her grandson. When the victim tried to shut the door, he shoved her to the floor and forced his way into the apartment.
Once inside the apartment, according to trial testimony, the defendant demanded money and the victim told him she had $40 in her purse. He then took a large knife from her kitchen and put it in his pocket. The victim began to scream and the defendant placed his hand over her mouth and proceeded to stab her repeatedly. He then rifled through her belongings, stopping to check on her before leaving the apartment. The victim testified that she played dead, but after he left the apartment she managed to drag herself out into the hallway. A neighbor called 911. The defendant was soon identified and arrested the next day.
The victim sustained 15 stab wounds throughout her body including one to her neck and chest, as well as a fractured orbital bone in her right eye and two fractured ribs.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Kori A. Medow, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau V, Orange Zone, under the supervision of Thomas C. Ridges, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
