East New York Man Sentenced to 60 Years to Life in Prison For Kidnapping and Imprisonment of Girlfriend and Her Baby - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 9, 2015
East New York Man Sentenced to 60 Years to Life in Prison For Kidnapping and Imprisonment of Girlfriend and Her Baby
Victims Bound, Beaten and Starved Over Five Months
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 36-year-old East New York man was sentenced to 60 years to life in prison. He was convicted last month of kidnapping and beating his girlfriend and her 2-year-old daughter over five months, repeatedly sexually abusing the woman and threatening to kill her and her family if she tried to escape.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant is unfit to ever again live in a civilized society and today’s sentence ensures that he will not. His former girlfriend showed tremendous courage by coming forward and testifying against him and seeing that justice was done for her and her child.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Yohannes Anglin, 36, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram to 60 years to life in prison. Last month the defendant was convicted of two counts of first-degree kidnapping, two counts of second-degree assault and two counts of first-degree reckless endangerment following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, between January 6, 2012 and May 29, 2012, the defendant, on a daily basis, bound the hands and feet of his 27-year-old girlfriend and her 2-year-old daughter with duct tape to prevent them from leaving their apartment and threatened to kill them if they tried to escape.
Further testimony showed that the defendant repeatedly sexually abused and strangled the woman and burned her with lit cigarettes. The woman and child were also beaten and starved; the child was forced to wear dirty diapers.
The victims were rescued by police, according to trial testimony, after they were called by a neighbor who reported a disturbance. The woman was hospitalized and treated for a broken jaw and finger, as well as cuts and cigarette burns all over her body. The child was treated for malnourishment, infections to the buttocks, and old and new bruises all over her body.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Brooke Cohen of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Audra Beerman, Deputy  Bureau Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
