Thirteen Arrested in Raid of Alleged Drug Dealers Who Operated Out of Two East Williamsburg Housing Developments - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, July 9, 2015
Thirteen Arrested in Raid of Alleged Drug Dealers
Who Operated Out of Two East Williamsburg Housing Developments
Sixth Narcotics Takedown in Brooklyn Public Housing
Since Last Summer Came After Months-Long Investigation;
Undercover Officers Repeatedly Purchased Drugs in Vicinity of Two Schools
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, together with New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton, announced today that 13 defendants have been arrested and variously charged with selling narcotics or possessing drugs in and around the Bushwick and Borinquen Plaza Housing Developments in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Members of the community reached out to law-enforcement with complaints about narcotics and related violence, leading to this successful investigation. We will not allow hard-working people to be held hostage by violent gangs and drug dealers who operate in their midst and these arrests will bring a measure of safety to residents in these housing developments.”
Commissioner Bratton said, “Thanks to the ongoing efforts to thwart the illegal sale of narcotics in public housing, these alleged narcotic traffickers who operated in the Bushwick and Borinquen Plaza Housing Developments have been brought to justice. I want to thank the NYPD investigators of Narcotics Borough Brooklyn North and the prosecutors at the Brooklyn DA’s Office who worked tirelessly in this case to protect public housing residents and their quality of life.”
The District Attorney said that the investigation, led by the NYPD’s Narcotics Borough Brooklyn North, started in October 2014, following complaints about drug activity in the two housing developments. Undercover officers made 27 purchases of crack-cocaine, heroin and marijuana from six of the charged defendants. Since June 16, 2014, the District Attorney’s Office has teamed up with the police to execute seven takedowns of drug traffickers in Public Housing Developments in Brooklyn, which led to charges against over 50 defendants.
District Attorney Thompson said that a total of six suspects who were identified in the course of the investigation were arrested on Wednesday, July 8, 2015 along with seven additional individuals who were with them when search warrants were executed. The defendants are awaiting arraignment in Brooklyn Criminal Court. They variously face between one year in jail to a maximum of nine years in prison. More arrests are expected as part of the ongoing investigation.
The alleged dealers are variously charged in criminal complaints with criminal sale of a controlled substance in or near school grounds, third-degree criminal sale of a controlled substance, third-degree possession of a controlled substance and other counts. The other defendants are variously charged with third- and seventh-degree possession of a controlled substance.
In one search warrant location, 68 glassine envelopes of heroin, up to 10 grams of crack-cocaine and over $2,000 were recovered. In another location, 49 grams of heroin were recovered.
The Bushwick Houses are bordered by Flushing Avenue, Bushwick Avenue, Moore Street and Humboldt Street. Borinquen Plaza Houses are bordered by Siegel Street, Bushwick Avenue, Boreum Street and Humboldt Street. There are two public elementary schools – PS 257 and PS 147 – within 1,000 feet of these public housing projects.
The investigation was conducted by Detective James McCullough and Detective Lorne Kanover of Narcotics Borough Brooklyn North, under the supervision of Sergeant Kenneth Durkin, Lieutenant Kassandra Whitaker and Captain Timothy Wilson.
The District Attorney also thanked the undercover police officers whose work was instrumental in the investigation.
The cases are being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Maria Linares, Deputy Chiefs of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of Investigations.
Defendants charged with sale and possession of a controlled substance are:
Steffon Best aka “Dogie,” 20, of 155 Siegel Street, Brooklyn.
Joaly Cruz aka “JuJu,” 24, of 155 Siegel Street, Brooklyn.
Miguel Forbes aka “Tan,” 24, of 1492 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn.
Darryl Irick aka “D,” 52, of 370 Bushwick Avenue, Brooklyn.
Marion Johnson aka “Money,” 31, of 654A Halsey Street, Brooklyn.
Melquan Richey aka “Stu,” 21, of 120 Humboldt Street, Brooklyn.
Defendants charged with possession of a controlled substance are:
Leslie Perez, 28 of 811 Flushing Avenue, Brooklyn.
Gary Brennerman, 29, of 90 Paladino Avenue, Manhattan.
Ricky de la Cruz, 18, of 77 Varet Street, Brooklyn.
George Erick, 56, of 370 Bushwick Avenue, Brooklyn.
Justin Erick, 23, of 370 Bushwick Avenue, Brooklyn.
Niagia Millsaps, 21, of 370 Bushwick Avenue, Brooklyn.
Michael Isler, 54 of 519 East 51
st
Street, Brooklyn.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
