Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Fatal Shooting in Canarsie - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 10, 2015
Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Fatal Shooting in Canarsie
Shot Victim Numerous Times During Altercation
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 25-year-old Canarsie man has been convicted of murder for the 2013 shooting death of another man, who was shot numerous times in the lobby of an apartment building following an altercation with the defendant.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This murder is just another example of the senseless gun violence that happens all too often. This defendant killed a young man over nothing and now will have many years in prison to think about the life he took.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Allen Ross, 25, of Canarsie, Brooklyn.  He was convicted yesterday afternoon of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog. The defendant will be sentenced on January 7, 2016 at which time he faces up to 25 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 4, 2013, at approximately 5:46 p.m., at 5706 Farragut Road, the defendant aimed a handgun at Lamar Blackwood and fired, striking the victim multiple times and killing him.
Video surveillance captured a physical altercation between the defendant and the victim just moments before the shooting, after the defendant opened the lobby door for the victim. The video also depicts the defendant holding a gun and shooting the victim before fleeing the scene and taking the gun with him.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
