Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 110 Years to Life for Shooting At Five NYPD Emergency Service Officers, Striking Three - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 22, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 110 Years to Life for Shooting At Five NYPD Emergency Service Officers, Striking Three
Defendant Barricaded Himself in Apartment With Pregnant Girlfriend and Her Toddler
District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 36-year-old Sheepshead Bay man was sentenced to 110 years to life in prison following his conviction on two counts of aggravated assault upon a police officer and other charges last month. The officers were injured when they responded to a 911 call at the defendant’s apartment because he had pointed a gun at someone earlier that day.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This convicted felon could have killed those five brave police officers who literally risked their lives to save a woman and her 10-month-old child. He’s not fit to remain in our society and deserves the sentence that he got today.”
The District Attorney said that the defendant, Nakwon Foxworth, 36, of 3301 Nostrand Avenue in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, was today sentenced by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog to 110 years to life in prison after being deemed a persistent violent felony offender. The defendant was convicted last month of two counts of aggravated assault upon a police officer, three counts of attempted aggravated assault upon a police officer, three counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, one count of third-degree criminal possession of a weapon and one count of second-degree menacing following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on April 8, 2012, the defendant got into a verbal dispute with movers in his building over items left in a hallway. The defendant pulled a gun on the workers and the police were called. The defendant then returned to the apartment he shared with his girlfriend, Jessica Hickling, and their 10-month-old son, armed with a gun.
Approximately an hour after police arrived, the defendant allowed Hickling and the baby to leave the apartment. The defendant then opened fire on the responding officers, injuring three of them. The officers then returned fire and struck the defendant. Three guns were recovered from the defendant’s apartment.
The District Attorney said that Officer Matthew Granahan was shot in the leg, Officer Michael Keenan was shot in the knee and Officer Kenneth Ayala was shot in the pelvic area and the foot. All of the officers were hospitalized and have recovered from their injuries.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andres Palacio of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Thomas Teplitsky under supervision of Deputy District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief of Homicide Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
