Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Killing Neighbor Inside Gravesend Building - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 9, 2015
Brooklyn Man Convicted Of Killing Neighbor Inside Gravesend Building
Fired at Victim Multiple Times, Wounded Another
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 33-year-old man has been convicted of murder and attempted murder for the 2013 fatal shooting of a man inside a building in Gravesend, Brooklyn, which left another man with a gunshot wound to the arm.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant chose to settle a score with a gun and senselessly took a life. He will now have many years to spend in a prison cell and think about the foolishness of his choice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tremaine Holmes, 33, of 30 Avenue V in Gravesend, Brooklyn. He was convicted yesterday afternoon of second-degree murder and second-degree attempted murder following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice. The defendant will be sentenced on January 4, 2016 at which time he faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, at about 11:55 p.m. on August 15, 2013, the defendant fired multiple shots at point blank range, hitting Perice Brown and also striking another man inside 30 Avenue V. He then chased Darryl Brown, firing multiple shots outside the building. Perice died from his injuries and the other victim suffered a gunshot wound to his arm.
The defendant and Perice lived in the same building and were known to each other. The defendant was apprehended in Binghamton, NY on October 15, 2013.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Bernarda Villalona, formerly of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
