Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Kidnapping and Torturing Ex-Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 17, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for
Kidnapping and Torturing Ex-Girlfriend
Victim Held Captive for a Month; Beaten, Burned with Iron and
Heated Screwdriver, Nearly Died
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 34-year-old man was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for a month-long torture he inflicted on his former girlfriend while she was held captive inside his Brooklyn apartment in 2012. The defendant tied up the victim with cords and wires, beat her with a piece of wood and burned her all over her body, leaving her with life-threatening injuries.
District Attorney Thompson said, “The defendant deserves this harsh punishment for his inhumane and barbaric torture of an innocent woman. May this sentence bring some solace to the victim for the unimaginable horror that she endured.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Anthony Matthews, 34, of 263A Bainbridge Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 25 years to life in prison before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alan Marrus, following his conviction on November 18, 2015 of first-degree kidnapping and first-degree assault after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, the defendant and the 29-year-old victim maintained an on-again, off-again relationship that was abusive at times. On June 29, 2012, the defendant picked up the victim from her father’s home in Peekskill, NY and brought her to his Brooklyn apartment.
Once in the apartment, the defendant tied her up with extension cords and telephone wires, repeatedly beat her with a 2×4 piece of wood and continuously threatened to kill her, according to testimony. About two weeks into the ordeal, the victim attempted to escape. In response, the defendant beat her up, broke her teeth by shoving a gun into her mouth, burned her inner thighs with a hot iron and mutilated her body, including her genitalia, with a screwdriver that he heated with a lighter, the evidence showed. Throughout the month of captivity, the victim’s family did not know where she was.
On July 30, 2012, Matthews left the victim by the threshold of his mother’s apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, rang the bell and fled. He instructed the victim to lie and say she prostituted herself and was attacked by a man she met on Craigslist.
The District Attorney said that the victim was taken to Woodhull Hospital in septic shock due to a serious infection, according to the evidence at trial. She also suffered fractured ribs, spinal damage, lacerated liver, fractured nose, burns all over her body and open wounds that exposed bones.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Sabeeha Madni and Assistant District Attorney Michael Liben of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
