Fifteen Defendants Charged with Narcotics Trafficking in Flatbush; One Man Additionally Charged with Murder for Shooting Death in July Believed to be in Retaliation for Earlier Gunshot Murder - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 6, 2015
Fifteen Defendants Charged with Narcotics Trafficking in Flatbush;
One Man Additionally Charged with Murder for Shooting Death in July
Believed to be in Retaliation for Earlier Gunshot Murder
Approximately 100 Drug Buys Made During Course of Operation;
Handgun, Quantity of Narcotics Recovered During Execution of Search Warrants
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, together with New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton, today announced that 15 people have been arrested on drug trafficking and other charges in connection with allegedly selling crack cocaine, heroin and marijuana to undercover officers over the past year during an anti-drug initiative in Flatbush, Brooklyn.
The District Attorney said that one of the alleged drug dealers, Oshane Fyffe, 18, is also charged with the July 15, 2015, shooting death of Abetonji Ajakaye, 25, in the vicinity of East 17
th
Street and Newkirk Avenue. Fyffe is believed to have shot the victim in retaliation for a July 13, 2015, incident in which Migly Jean-Jacquez, 18, allegedly shot and killed Harold Abadia Sandoval, 21, in the vicinity of East 21
st
Street and Newkirk Avenue. Jean-Jacquez was arrested on July 31, 2015 and is charged with second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.
District Attorney Thompson said, “These arrests underscore our determination to reclaim our streets from drug dealers and other criminals who endanger the safety and degrade the quality of life of our communities. Gun-related street violence puts everyone at risk and has left two young men dead.”
Commissioner Bratton said, “I want to thank the NYPD’s Brooklyn South Narcotics Division and the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office for working together to remove these drug dealers from our streets. The NYPD remains committed to working with our law enforcement partners to stop the flow of illegal narcotics into our city.”
The investigation began in August 2014 following community complaints about narcotics trafficking and violence within the confines of the 67
th
and 70
th
Precincts in Flatbush. Specifically, the investigation focused on a several block radius from Bedford Avenue to East 21
st
Street and Foster Avenue to Ditmas Avenue.
Over the course of the investigation, undercover officers made approximately 100 buys of crack cocaine, heroin and marijuana. Police recovered a 9 mm Beretta, as well as a quantity of crack cocaine, marijuana, heroin, and drug paraphernalia during the execution of search warrants yesterday.
The defendants are presently awaiting arraignment on multiple criminal complaints in Brooklyn Criminal Court. They are variously charged with conspiracy in the fourth-degree, a class E felony, punishable by up to four years in prison; criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree, a class B felony punishable by up to nine years in prison; criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree, a B felony punishable by up to nine years in prison; criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree, an A misdemeanor punishable by up to one year in jail; criminal sale of marihuana in the fourth-degree, an A misdemeanor punishable by up to one year in jail; and unlawful possession of marihuana, a violation punishable by up to 15 days in jail.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Jeremy Demarco of Narcotics Borough Brooklyn South, under the supervision of Lieutenant Frankie Rivera.
The narcotics case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Adam Uris, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jonathan R. Sennett, Deputy Bureau Chief and Nicole Chavis, Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the Investigations Division.
ADA Sennett is prosecuting Oshane Fyffe for the July 15, 2015, murder of Abetonji Ajakaye.
Senior Assistant District Attorney Lewis Lieberman, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, is prosecuting Migly Jean-Jacquez for the July 13, 2015, murder of Harold Abadia Sandoval, under the supervision of Deputy District Attorney Kenneth M. Taub, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
Defendant Addendum:
Barbara Capers
, dob: 9-21-56, 2215 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (11 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (11 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Egobeda James
, dob: 10-31-79, 529 East 22
nd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (4 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (4 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Hayden Flemming
, dob: 12-10-82, 2328 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (14 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (14 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Walter Stewart
, dob: 3-11-69, 2336 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (9 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (9 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Jeffrey Raymond
, dob: 7-15-88, 529 East 22
nd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (4 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (4 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (2 counts); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (2 counts).
Thomas Jones
, dob: 9-6-84, 529 East 22
nd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (5 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (5 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Shawn Hazel
, dob: 3-2-97, 401 East 23
rd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (8 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (6 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Oshane Fyffe
, dob: 11-4-96, 611 East 21
st
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with murder in the second-degree (1 count) and criminal possession of a weapon (1 count); criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (9 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (9 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and conspiracy in the fourth-degree (1 count).
Rayshawn Jones
, dob: 12-4-89, 905 East 38
th
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of marihuana in the fourth-degree (4 counts); and unlawful possession of marihuana (4 counts).
Nancy Negron aka Lebron
, dob: 8-4-80, 2115 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (2 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (2 counts); and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree (2 counts).
Paolo Alfaro-Barber
, dob: 7-28-91, 1333 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (1 count); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (2 counts); and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (2 counts).
Sheldon Flemming
, dob: 12-9-76, 2328 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (1 count); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count); and criminally using drug paraphernalia in the second-degree (1 count).
Jasmine Luzicourt
, dob: 7-24-97, 529 East 22
nd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal possession of a firearm (1 count); criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth-degree (1 count); and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (2 counts).
Jermaine Luzincourt
, dob: 7-29-88, 529 East 22
nd
Street, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal possession of a firearm (1 count); criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth-degree (1 count); and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (2 counts).
Rafael Marrero
, dob: 5-2-68, 2604 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. Charged with criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third-degree (2 counts); criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third-degree (2 counts); and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh-degree (1 count).
#
A criminal complaint is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
