Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Crash That Left Newlywed Couple and Their Premature Infant Dead - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, March 13, 2015
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Crash That Left Newlywed Couple and Their Premature Infant Dead
Defendant Convicted of Manslaughter for Slamming Into Livery Cab
While Speeding Through Streets of Williamsburg
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 46-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison following his conviction earlier this year on second-degree manslaughter and other charges in connection with a fatal hit-and-run in Williamsburg in 2013 that left a young couple and their premature infant dead.
The District Attorney said, “Today’s sentence shows our determination to get justice for Nathan and Raizy Glauber, and their son, Tanchem, whom the defendant killed by driving recklessly and then just walked away. Hopefully, it will help in some way to bring solace to their families.”
The District Attorney said that the defendant, Julio Acevedo, 46, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog. The defendant was convicted of two counts of second-degree manslaughter, one count of criminally negligent homicide and two counts of leaving the scene of an incident without reporting in February, following a jury trial. The defendant faced up to 15 years in prison on the top count, but because he was deemed to be a persistent felony offender, in the Court’s discretion, based on his criminal history he received an enhanced sentence of 25 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, at approximately 12:15 a.m., on March 3, 2013, Acevedo, who was driving a BMW, was traveling northbound on Kent Avenue at approximately 70 miles per hour, passing cars and switching lanes on Kent Avenue when he crashed into a livery cab traveling westbound on Wilson Avenue, being driven by Pedro Nunez-Delacruz. The livery cab was easing into the intersection to make a left turn when it was struck. Backseat passengers Nathan Glauber, 21, and his wife, Raizy, also 21, who was seven-months pregnant, were killed. Their son, Tanchem, was delivered alive, but died the next day. The cab driver suffered minor injuries.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, Acevedo jumped out of his car after crashing into the livery cab, observed the carnage and then fled the scene. He was arrested by the New York City Police Department’s Warrant Squad in Pennsylvania on March 7, 2013.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Gayle M. Dampf, Chief of the District Attorney’s Vehicular Crimes Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau III – Grey Zone.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
