Former Manager Sentenced For Stealing $120,000 From Pitkin Avenue Modell Pawnbrokers - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, August 7, 2015
Former Manager Sentenced For Stealing $120,000 From Pitkin Avenue Modell Pawnbrokers
Defendant Admitted He Stole Cash From Safe To Pay Debts
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 35-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced for stealing $120,000 from a Brownsville branch of Modell pawn shops, where he worked as a manager. The defendant said he took the money to pay off debts. He was sentenced to six months of weekends in jail and there was a full order of restitution filed against him.
District Attorney Thompson said, “We intend to make sure that the defendant pays back every dime that he stole from his employer and also serves jail time for his criminal conduct.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Timmy Harrison, 35, of Ryder Street, in Flatlands. The defendant pleaded guilty before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on May 26, 2015, to one count of fourth-degree grand larceny. He was sentenced today to six months of weekends in jail and signed a judgment for a full order of restitution.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant had been employed at the Pitkin Avenue Modell Pawnbrokers since May 2010. As manager of that location, he was responsible for all cash and had exclusive access to certain secured areas of the branch. In August 2014, owner Eric Modell became aware of financial irregularities in the Pitkin Avenue location and sent the Director of Security to investigate. He found that approximately $123,000 cash was missing from the location and confronted the defendant, who admitted taking $120,000 cash without permission. The District Attorney’s office was then notified of the theft.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Pamela Murray of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Felice Sontupe, Chief of the Frauds Bureau, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
