Brooklyn Man Convicted of Kidnapping, Rape and Assault of Former Girlfriend He Held Captive for Three Days - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 16, 2015
Brooklyn Man Convicted of Kidnapping, Rape and Assault of
Former Girlfriend He Held Captive for Three Days
Victim Was Hogtied, Beaten and Tortured With Her 2-Year-Old Daughter in the Next Room
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 31-year-old man was convicted of kidnapping, raping and torturing his former girlfriend for three straight days, with their 2-year-old daughter present at the apartment for most of that time. The defendant kept the victim cuffed for the entire ordeal, beat her with a dumbbell, cut her feet, shaved off her hair and sexually assaulted her repeatedly until a neighbor called police.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant is a monster. He mercilessly tortured a defenseless woman and would have probably killed her if he wasn’t stopped. We intend to ask for the maximum sentence so he will spend the rest of his life in a prison cell where he belongs.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Alex Anselmo, 31, of 71 Grand Avenue, in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of all 17 charges he faced, including first-degree kidnapping, first-degree rape, first-degree burglary, second-degree assault, criminal possession of a weapon, aggravated criminal contempt and related counts, following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram. The defendant will be sentenced on October 1, 2015, at which time he faces up to 50 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, the 31-year-old victim broke up with the defendant, with whom she has two daughters, in the spring of 2012, and he became increasingly obsessive. After learning via Facebook that she met another man and was planning to move to Florida, he grew more incensed, the evidence showed, contacting her in violation of an order of protection taken against him in 2012 after he assaulted the victim.
On April 1, 2013, Anselmo pushed his way into the victim’s Bedford-Stuyvesant apartment. He punched her and handcuffed her to the bed, where she remained tied for most of the following three days. The defendant raped and sodomized her each day, used a knife to cut her feet, severing a tendon, and beat her with a dumbbell and an extension cord. He threatened to shoot her with a gun, stuffed a sock in her mouth and used clippers to cut off all of her hair. The victim suffered 50 wounds to her body and feet.
The 2-year-old girl was forced to stay in the living room for most of the ordeal. She was released by the defendant hours before police arrived. A neighbor called 911 on April 3, 2013 after getting concerned, listening through the door and hearing the cocking of a gun. When police officers from the Emergency Services Unit broke down the door, they found the victim tied to the bed in a formal dress she was forced to wear earlier that day, according to testimony. A revolver was recovered in the apartment.
The District Attorney said that evidence presented at trial showed that the defendant took a cell phone photo of the woman’s stab wound during the crime, which was deleted but later recovered. It also showed that two days prior to the incident he conducted web searches on how many Xanax pills are needed to cause a death and on how to sterilize a woman.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Brooke Cohen of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Audra Beerman, Deputy Bureau Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
