Brooklyn Man Convicted of New Year’s Day Shooting - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 12, 2015
Brooklyn Man Convicted of New Year’s Day Shooting Outside Flatbush Nightclub; Nine Shots Fired, Injuring Two Men
Shooting Captured on Videotape Surveillance Camera
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 31-year-old Brownsville man was convicted of one count of second-degree attempted murder and one count of first-degree assault for opening fire outside a Flatbush nightclub on January 1, 2014, firing nine shots and striking two victims. He faces up to 25 years in prison for each victim when he is sentenced later this month.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant shot up the street outside a night club and put many people who were out celebrating the New Year at risk. He has now been held accountable and will face many years in prison when he is sentenced later this month.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Donald Munnerlyn, 31, of Marconi Place in Brownsville. He was convicted of one count of second-degree attempted murder and one count of first-degree assault yesterday following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Guidice. He will be sentenced on June 25, 2015, at which time he faces a minimum of 10 years and a maximum of 25 years for each of the top two counts.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 1, 2014, at approximately 4:45 a.m., the defendant and one of the victims, Richard Cannon, engaged in a fist fight inside a nightclub called Temptations, located at 2210 Church Avenue in Flatbush. They were separated by security. At approximately 5 a.m., the victim was outside of the club with his friends when the defendant walked up to him and fired nine times. He was shot once in the abdomen and once in the back. An innocent bystander, Yves Edouard, who was waiting in line to enter the club, was shot twice in the right leg.
Furthermore, according to trial testimony, the head of security from the club identified the defendant as the shooter in a surveillance video recovered from the club.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Joshua Lee and Dovid Wolosow, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau IV, Green Zone, under the supervision of David Klestzick, Chief.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
