Brooklyn Man Convicted of Murder during Dice Game - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 25, 2016
Brooklyn Man Convicted of Murder during Dice Game
Shot Victim Dead, Wounded Two Others; Faces up to 47 Years to Life in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 24-year-old man has been convicted of murder and assault for shooting up a dice game in Brownsville in 2012, killing a 20-year-old man and wounding two others.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This case is another reminder of the mayhem caused by senseless gun violence.  The young defendant opened fire in the middle of the street, taking the life of another young man.  He will now spend a good part of his life behind bars because of the terrible choice that he made.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Lawrence Harris, 24, of 708 Kingsborough 7 Walk in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of second-degree murder, first-degree attempted assault, reckless endangerment and related counts following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun, who set sentencing for June 14, 2015. The defendant faces up to 47 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on June 28, 2012, at 11:30 p.m., the defendant opened fire at a group of men who were playing dice by the corner of Sutter Avenue and Union Street in Brownsville, Brooklyn. Trendon Franklin, 20, was struck three times in the chest, abdomen and arm, and died of his injuries. Another victim was grazed by a bullet in the chest and struck in the index finger. A third victim was shot in the back. The defendant was arrested in April 2013.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Patrick L. O’Connor and Assistant District Attorney Ashlyn Miranda of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
