Brooklyn Man Convicted of Fatally Shooting Another after Altercation - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 8, 2016
Brooklyn Man Convicted of Fatally Shooting Another after Altercation
Shot Victim Three Times Following Confrontation on Sunset Park Stoop
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 25-year-old Brooklyn man has been convicted of murder for shooting another man to death after they had a confrontation in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Another victim was shot in the leg.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant shot and killed a man after an altercation had ended.  He will now pay dearly for committing such deadly violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Valentin Torres, 25, of 538 82
nd
Street in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of second-degree murder, second-degree assault and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alan Marrus, who set sentencing for May 6, 2016. The defendant faces a maximum sentence of 32 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, at approximately 1 a.m. on August 25, 2013, the defendant was sitting outside 744 39
th
Street in Sunset Park, Brooklyn when he was approached by Johnny Rosado, 35. The two got into a fight over a comment the defendant purportedly made to a woman, according to testimony.
The defendant pulled out a revolver, effectively ending the confrontation, according to witnesses. He then fired the gun multiple times, striking Rosado three times and also hitting another man in the leg. The defendant was arrested in New Jersey about two weeks later.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Melissa Carvajal, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Kenneth Taub, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
