Williamsburg Man Convicted of Gang Assault - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, September 23, 2016
Williamsburg Man Convicted of Gang Assault
Was Part of Group that Punched and Kicked Victim on Brooklyn Street,
Leaving him Blind in One Eye; Connected to Assault through DNA Evidence
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 24-year-old man from Williamsburg, Brooklyn was convicted of gang assault and related charges for his role in the brutal beating of Taj Patterson, a young man who was walking in the street when he was set upon by over a dozen people.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Today’s verdict is a testament to our determination to fully prosecute this case based on the evidence, which clearly connected this defendant to the crime. I hope that this outcome will bring a measure of comfort to Mr. Patterson and his family.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mayer Herskovic, 24, of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of second-degree gang assault, first-degree unlawful imprisonment and menacing following a bench trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. The defendant faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on December 1, 2013, at about 4:40 a.m., Taj Patterson was walking on Flushing Avenue in Williamsburg when a man, later joined by other men, started to chase him. The victim ran, but the group, eventually comprised of 15 to 20 men, caught up to him near the corner of Flushing Avenue and Spencer Street.
The victim was then punched, kicked, stomped and had his eye poked by members of the group, according to testimony. He suffered facial fractures, retinal damage and lost eyesight in his right eye.
In the course of the attack, the evidence showed, a sneaker worn by the victim was stripped off his foot and thrown onto the roof of an adjacent building. DNA recovered from that sneaker matches the defendant’s.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau III, Grey Zone, and Assistant District Attorney Tyear Middleton, also of the Grey Zone.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
