Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Announces Two High School Internship Programs - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 25, 2016
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Announces Two
High School Internship Programs
Internship Program to Run in Mid-Winter and Spring Cycles; Program Provides Unique Learning Experience in Public Service and Law
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of a competitive mid-winter and spring internship program for current high school juniors and seniors who live and attend school in Brooklyn. Students with a strong interest in criminal justice or the public interest sector and who meet the requisite eligibility criteria are encouraged to apply and participate in one of two intensive one-week programs.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This expanded program builds upon our summer high school internship program and will offer participants unique and valuable exposure to the inner workings of the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office. We are committed to providing meaningful opportunities for our youth and I look forward to creating additional youth-focused programs in the upcoming year.”
Selected students will be assigned to a unit within the DA’s office and will support the work of Assistant District Attorneys and other members of the DA’s staff. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis using the Internet, news articles and legal periodicals; assist attorneys on pretrial matters; work on case preparation, discovery, file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in trial zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
The program is open to qualifying juniors and seniors who must be able to commit to the entire duration of either of two internship cycles. Cycle 1 will run from February 21, 2017 to February 24, 2017; Cycle 2 will run from April 10, 2017 to April 14, 2017. Each cycle runs from Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., and Friday from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
This is an unpaid internship but students will receive a MetroCard to assist with transportation. Applicants are required to supply their most recent school transcripts, a one-page resume, two letters of recommendation including one from either a teacher, coach, or mentor, and must submit a 300 word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s office and what impact they think it will have on their future personal and academic endeavors. All applications must be submitted with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Application Cover Sheet available on the Brooklyn District Attorney’s website (brooklynda.org/internships/) beginning November 1, 2016.
Completed documents should be emailed to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
in pdf format, with the subject line: “Brooklyn DA Mid-Winter and Spring Internship Program,” no later than December 9, 2016.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
