Brooklyn Man Sentenced to up to 10 Years in State Prison for Sex Trafficking a Young Woman in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 28, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to up to 10 Years in State Prison
For Sex Trafficking a Young Woman in East New York
Defendant Refused to Let Victim and Her 4-Year-Old Son Leave His Apartment;
Forced Her to Work as a Prostitute, Earn $1,000 Over Two Days
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 30-year-old man who pleaded guilty to sex trafficking for refusing to let a female acquaintance leave his apartment and forcing her to work as a prostitute has been sentenced to an indeterminate term of five to 10 years in state prison.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant treated a young mother in need of a place to stay as an object to be sold to others in exchange for sex. Abhorrent crimes of this nature will not be tolerated in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Donneil Foskey, 30, of East New York, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to an indeterminate term of five to 10 years in prison and will be required to register as a sex offender upon his release. He pleaded guilty to sex trafficking before Justice Chun on September 8, 2016.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 19, 2014, the victim, a 23-year-old woman, and her 4-year-old son visited the defendant’s apartment on Milford Street in East New York because she needed a place to stay. When she attempted to leave the apartment on April 21, 2014, however, the defendant refused to let her leave and ordered her to work as a prostitute and make $1,000 over two days.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, from April 21 to May 1, 2014, Foskey forced the woman to place an advertisement on backpage.com and to work as a prostitute. Over that week and a half she was forced to have sex with men who contacted her through the ad. Foskey kept all of the money. Foskey or one of the girls working for him drove the victim to meet the men who paid to have sex with her.
On April 29, 2014, Foskey wrongly accused the victim of helping another female steal money and jewelry from his bedroom. He then tied up the victim and pistol-whipped her in the head, causing bruising.
The next day, the victim was taken by Foskey to a house in Queens to have sex with a man and while there managed to call her aunt and tell her she was being trafficked and held against her will. When she returned to Brooklyn and was back with her son she texted her aunt. Her aunt called 911. Officers from the 75th precinct rescued her in the early morning hours of May 1, 2014. A search warrant was executed on Foskey’s car and apartment and a loaded handgun and a pillow covered in the victim’s blood were recovered.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective David Mills of the Vice Major Case Human Trafficking Team and Police Officer Richard Galvez, formerly of the 75th Precinct.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney David Weiss and Assistant District Attorney Sarah Cohen, of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, with the assistance of KCDA Human Trafficking Social Worker Haley Feldman, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Laura Edidin, Unit Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
