East New York Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison For Murder on Street Corner - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 28, 2016
East New York Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison
For Murder on Street Corner
Shot Victim in Head as He Lay Bleeding, High-Speed Police Chase Ensued
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson yesterday announced that an East New York man was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for his murder conviction. The defendant shot a man multiple times on an East New York street corner, killing him, then led police officers on a high-speed car chase before being apprehended.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant shot a man in a barbaric fashion who tried to run for his life. He’s been held accountable and will now spend decades in prison for his deplorable act of violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ralston Avery, 37, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Harrington to 25 years to life in prison following his conviction on May 27, 2016 on charges of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 22, 2012, at approximately 10:25 p.m., the victim, Dwayne Welch, 38, of Valley Stream, NY, was sitting in his car, parked at the intersection of Hemlock Street and Dumont Avenue in East New York. The defendant got out of a Cadillac Escalade SUV and began firing at the victim, who left his vehicle and attempted to flee on foot. The defendant chased the victim, catching up to him at the corner of Blake Avenue and Hemlock Street, where the defendant fired an additional 14 times at the victim, striking him repeatedly in the torso, before shooting him twice in the back of the head as he lay bleeding on the ground.
According to trial testimony, two New York City Police Department officers approached the intersection on patrol and observed two individuals run from the sidewalk where the shots were fired into a double-parked SUV. The officers pursued the SUV on a high-speed chase, ending in front of the Pink Houses at 2628 Linden Boulevard. The defendant, who was in the passenger seat, and the driver, ran into the building. The officers pursued them, catching the defendant on a flight of stairs still holding an emptied handgun.
The driver of the SUV, Theodore Haynes, 33, of Sheepshead Bay, was later caught inside the building and pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. He is awaiting sentencing.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Howard L. Jackson, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Leigh-Ann Perez, of the District Attorney’s Trial Zone Red, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
