Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, January 14, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting
Defendant Fired Multiple Rounds at Victim during Dispute in Canarsie
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 25-year-old Canarsie man has been sentenced to 30 years to life in prison for the 2013 shooting death of another man, who was shot numerous times in the lobby of an apartment building following an altercation with the defendant.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This murder is another example of the mindless gun violence that occurs all too frequently throughout our country. With today’s sentence, this defendant will now spend the next 30 or more years in prison thinking about the life that he took.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Allen Ross, 25, of Canarsie, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 30 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog following his conviction last month on charges of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial. The defendant was sentenced to 20 years to life on the murder conviction and 10 years on the weapon conviction, and the judge ordered the sentences to run consecutive to one another.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 4, 2013, at approximately 5:46 p.m., at 5706 Farragut Road, the defendant aimed a handgun at Lamar Blackwood and fired, striking the victim multiple times and killing him.
Video surveillance captured a physical altercation between the defendant and the victim just moments before the shooting, after the defendant opened the lobby door for the victim. The video also depicts the defendant holding a gun and shooting the victim before fleeing the scene and taking the gun with him.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
