Seventeen-Year-Old Convicted of Murder in Shooting of Teen Near East New York High School in Broad Daylight - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 2, 2016
Seventeen-Year-Old Convicted of Murder in Shooting of Teen
Near East New York High School in Broad Daylight
Defendant Shot the Victim Twice in the Head; Faces Up to 25 Years to Life in Prison
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a teenager from East New York has been convicted of murder for fatally shooting an 18-year-old teenager in the head near a high school in East New York, where the victim had gone to meet his younger sister.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This senseless act of gun violence has now destroyed two families: the life of a promising young man was cut short and his young killer will spend more than half his life – if not the rest of his life – behind bars.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Malik Streat, 17, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alexander B. Jeong. He will be sentenced on November 21, 2016, at which time he faces up to 25 years to life in prison.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 13, 2016, at approximately 2:45 p.m., in the vicinity of Livonia Avenue and Pennsylvania Avenue, in East New York, the defendant shot Darnell Wilkerson, 18, in the head. After the victim fell to the ground the defendant shot him in the head a second time and then fled. The shooting took place near the former Thomas Jefferson High School. The victim, a recent graduate of the school, was there to meet his 16-year-old sister.
The defendant was apprehended a few blocks away and found with a .38 caliber pistol in his pocket. Surveillance footage from surrounding buildings captured the incident.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sara Kurtzberg, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, of the District Attorney’s School Advocacy Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief of the Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Colleen Babb, Chief of the School Advocacy Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
