Brooklyn Man Sentenced for Stabbing Death of Girlfriend in Residential Mental Health Facility - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 12, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced for Stabbing Death of
Girlfriend in Residential Mental Health Facility
Defendant to Serve 25 Years to Life in State Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 52-year-old man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for stabbing to death his 48-year-old girlfriend at a residential facility for people with mental health diagnoses, where they both lived.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant brutally attacked his girlfriend and left her to die in a hallway. He should now spend many years in prison to punish him and to protect society.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Benjamin Braxton, 52, formerly of 330 MacDougal Street, in Brownsville, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today to 25 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Harrington. He was convicted of one count of second-degree murder last month following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on May 3, 2013, at approximately 1:40 p.m., the defendant and his girlfriend of one year, Raynell Howington, 48, who were both residents of The MacDougal Street Apartments, run by Concern for Independent Living, at 330 MacDougal Street, and had met at the residence, were both in the computer room at the facility when the defendant slashed the victim numerous times with a box cutter on her neck and legs.
The defendant left the room when someone opened the door, according to testimony. Howington managed to crawl to the door and open it, at which point the defendant dragged her out into the hallway and kicked and slashed her repeatedly. That part of the attack was captured on a surveillance video in the hallway.
Howington died at the scene of neck wounds, including injuries to the trachea and right internal jugular vein. The defendant fled the scene, according to testimony, but was arrested the next day when he attempted to visit a friend at a shelter in Manhattan who saw news reports about the attack and called police.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joan Erskine, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Michelle L. Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
