Brooklyn Prosecutor Awarded Prestigious Thomas E. Dewey Medal By New York City Bar Association - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 7, 2016
Brooklyn Prosecutor Awarded Prestigious Thomas E. Dewey Medal
By New York City Bar Association
Award Presented Annually To Outstanding Prosecutors in New York City
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that Assistant District Attorney Joseph Alexis, Chief of the Trial Division, was awarded the Thomas E. Dewey Medal by the New York City Bar Association last night at a medal presentation in midtown Manhattan.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I am very pleased to announce that Joseph Alexis is a recipient of the 2016 Thomas E. Dewey Medal. Joe embodies the ideals that Thomas E. Dewey himself valued so highly in a prosecutor – integrity, fearlessness, fairness and excellence.”
Assistant District Attorney Alexis, who has been with the office for more than 25 years, has prosecuted some of the most challenging cases that the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office has handled. His trials have ranged from the successful prosecution of former Police Officer Peter Liang for the shooting death of Akai Gurley to that of Supreme Court Justice Gerald Garson for accepting bribes. In his previous position, as Chief of the Red Zone Trial Bureau, which encompasses East New York, Cypress Hills, Canarsie and other areas, he worked diligently to repair the frayed relationship between the community and law enforcement.
Alexis was promoted to Chief of the Trial Division this month. He now oversees the work of the Office’s five trial zone bureaus, as well as some of the specialized trial bureaus.
The Thomas E. Dewey Medal is an annual award that goes to outstanding assistant district attorneys in each of the District Attorney’s Offices in New York City and the Office of Special Narcotics Prosecutor for the City of New York.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
