Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Announces Gun Buyback - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 22, 2016
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Announces Gun Buyback
Operable Handguns and Assault Rifles can be Turned Over for $200, No Questions Asked;
Saturday, August 27, at Clarendon Road Church in Flatbush
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that his office, together with the New York City Police Department, is hosting a Gun Buyback event this coming Saturday to help people dispose of unwanted guns that they possess in exchange for cash. No questions will be asked and no ID required from those who turn in their guns.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Saturday’s Gun Buyback is one component of our efforts to rid Brooklyn’s streets of illegal firearms. With law enforcement and community working together, we make our communities safer. I encourage anyone with an unwanted gun to take advantage of this important initiative.”
NYPD Commissioner William J. Bratton said, “Gun violence and gun accidents adversely affect far too many lives in our communities. Gun buyback programs provide the opportunity and incentive to keep dangerous weapons off the streets of our city. I urge everyone to participate in this important program.”
The District Attorney said that the Gun Buyback event will take place on Saturday, August 27, 2016, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Clarendon Road Church, located at 3304 Clarendon Road in Flatbush, Brooklyn.
The District Attorney’s office, along with the New York City Police Department, will offer money in the form of $200 bank cards for each operable gun turned in. The bank cards will be issued after each unloaded gun is received and screened by officers on-site. Guns should be unloaded and packaged in a paper or plastic bag or box when brought to the event. Both working and inoperable weapons will be accepted. Active and/or retired law enforcement officers and licensed gun dealers are not eligible for this event.
Participants will receive $200 for operable handguns and assault rifles and $25 for operable shotguns and rifles. Participants may turn in an unlimited number of guns, but will receive a limit of $600 in bank cards. No identification is required and the firearms will be accepted with no questions asked.
The NYPD, pairing with local DA’s offices, has taken about 10,000 guns off the street via gun buyback events since 2008.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
