Former High School Basketball Player Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Shooting Ex-Roommate - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 22, 2016
Former High School Basketball Player Sentenced to 15 Years
In Prison for Shooting Ex-Roommate
Fired at Victim Six Times in Sheepshead Bay Courtyard
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 24-year-old man from East New York, Brooklyn was sentenced to 15 years in prison for shooting another man in the chest and body during a confrontation in broad daylight in a courtyard in Sheepshead Bay.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant chose to repeatedly shoot a former friend, even as the victim lay helpless on the ground, for no reason, leaving him with permanent injuries. The sentence imposed today reflects the seriousness of the crime.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Davontay Grace, 24, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deborah Dowling to 15 years in prison following his conviction on August 2, 2016 of first-degree assault and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 23, 2015, at 12:26 p.m., outside of 2263 Batchelder Street in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, the defendant had a short conversation with Dexter Hopkins, who was 23-years-old at the time. The defendant then pulled out a .45-caliber pistol and shot the victim in the chest. With the victim on the ground, he fired five additional shots, striking him in the leg and body.
The victim was taken to Lutheran Medical Center. He suffered injuries to his lungs, bowels and leg, underwent multiple surgeries, lost one of his kidneys and still has one bullet lodged in his leg, according to testimony.
The evidence showed that Grace and Hopkins knew each other for years: they once played on opposing Brooklyn high school teams and later were roommates in a Georgia prep school. The victim, who managed to call 911 despite his injuries, positively identified the defendant as the shooter.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Charles Guria and Assistant District Attorney Garey Pierce of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau, Green Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
