Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life for Fatal Shooting in Gravesend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, January 4, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life for Fatal Shooting in Gravesend
Killed Victim with Multiple Gunshots, Shot a Second Man in Arm
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 33-year-old man was sentenced to 40 years to life in prison for the 2013 murder of a neighbor inside a building in Gravesend, Brooklyn, and for the subsequent attempted murder of another man, who was shot in the arm.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant engaged in senseless gun violence and now deserves to spend many years behind bars for the death and suffering he caused.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tremaine Holmes, 33, of 30 Avenue V in Gravesend, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 40 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice, following his conviction on December 8, 2015 of second-degree murder and second-degree attempted murder following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, at about 11:55 p.m. on August 15, 2013, the defendant fired multiple shots at point blank range, hitting Perice Brown and also striking another individual inside 30 Avenue V. He then chased a third man, firing multiple shots outside the building. Brown died from his injuries and the second victim suffered a gunshot wound to his arm.
The defendant and Brown lived in the same building and were known to each other. The defendant was apprehended in Binghamton, NY on October 15, 2013.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Bernarda Villalona, formerly of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
