Eighteen Alleged Members of Violent Folk Nation Street Gang Indicted for Terrorizing and Shooting Up the Streets of Brooklyn During Hunting Expeditions - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 3, 2016
Eighteen Alleged Members of Violent Folk Nation Street Gang
Indicted for Terrorizing and Shooting Up the Streets of Brooklyn
During Hunting Expeditions
Defendants Allegedly Plotted to Shoot and Murder Rivals in Canarsie, Flatbush and DUMBO,
Killing one rival, paralyzing an innocent woman and shooting many others;
Planned and Shared Their Exploits on Social Media
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, together with New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton and Mayor Bill de Blasio, today announced that 18 alleged members of No Love City, a subset of the violent Folk Nation street gang, have been variously charged in a 76-count indictment with conspiracy to commit murder, weapons possession and other charges for multiple shootings throughout Brooklyn, including one that left a 25-year-old man dead and another that left a 60-year-old innocent woman paralyzed.
District Attorney Thompson said, “We must never allow violent street gangs to take over and terrorize our communities by going on hunting expeditions and roaming our streets shooting and killing people at will. This indictment makes clear that we will not cede our streets to armed criminals but will do everything in our power to keep our streets safe for all.”
Commissioner Bratton said, “These defendants are not just crew members but part of a criminal enterprise that has been responsible for a significant amount of the violence which has plagued the Flatbush and Canarsie sections of Brooklyn over the last two years. I commend the investigators and prosecutors who developed a substantial case against this group.”
Mayor de Blasio said, “The Gun Violence Suppression Division is using state-of-the-art policing to successfully investigate, arrest and prosecute violent criminals who attempt to wreak havoc on our city’s streets. I want to thank Commissioner Bratton, District Attorney Ken Thompson and the brave NYPD members who worked tirelessly together to secure these charges and keep our streets safe. NYPD will continue to quickly apprehend anyone responsible for gun violence in our city – and take every step to make sure they remain off our streets.”
The District Attorney said that 15 of the defendants were arraigned before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Martin P. Murphy and Justice Miriam Cyrulnik last week and this week and ordered held without bail. Another defendant is awaiting extradition from New Jersey and two others are being sought. The defendants who were arraigned were ordered to return to court on March 22, 2016. They face various penalties ranging from 25 years to life for second-degree murder and up to 25 years for second-degree attempted murder. All of the defendants are charged with second-degree conspiracy for which they face up to 25 years. (See defendant addendum).
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendants, whose ages range from 18 to 27 years old, are members of No Love City (NLC), a subset of Folk Nation, and operate primarily within the confines of the 63rd, 67th, 69th and 70th precincts, mostly in the vicinity of Flatbush Avenue, Newkirk Avenue and Ditmas Avenue in Brooklyn. During the course of the conspiracy the defendants variously allegedly agreed to commit crimes, including murder and assault, in order to maintain their dominance over that geographic area, particularly Flatbush.
Furthermore, the defendants also allegedly directed their acts of violence toward rival gang members living in and around Canarsie, Brooklyn, including members of the Crips subsets 100 Cloccs and GS9, as well as HQ Monopoly and the 1090s, in retaliation for the murder of NLC member Malik Bhola, 17, aka, Reckless, on January 1, 2014, in Bushwick. Bhola was shot in the chest following a fight over a girl at a party he had attended. Before he was shot he sent out a call for help – noting that there were “opps” in the area, referring to opposition members of gangs from Canarsie, also known as the “Flossy” in gang parlance.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, following the murder of Bhola, members of NLC, including some of the defendants, would go “riding out” in Canarsie, by which they meant going on hunting expeditions in vehicles and shooting individuals they suspected of being 100 Cloccs or HQ Monopoly, or merely being from the “Flossy.”
During the escalating violence, it is alleged, NLC members frequently discussed their intentions and efforts to engage in additional attacks and took credit for past attacks using social media. The violent attacks on their Canarsie rivals escalated further following the October 14, 2015, murder of NLC member Richard James, aka, “Money Bags.” James was shot to death outside the Comedy Store on the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood, California.
It is alleged that during the conspiracy charged in the indictment, which is from September 27, 2013 until January 25, 2016, to further the criminal activities of the gang, NLC members committed various other crimes including selling prison contraband and robberies. They also communicated their intentions on social media, including Facebook, and during inmate calls made from Rikers Island, including ordering acts of retribution such as beatings and shootings of members of rival gangs. Many of the phone calls were allegedly made by or with Kwyme Waddell, aka, “K,” who is considered the “Big Homie,” or leader of NLC.
Among the acts of violence charged in the indictment are the following:
On February 9, 2014, it is alleged, defendant Christian Williams shot and injured a rival on a commercial street, an instance of NLC members engaging in a “riding out” hunting expedition in Canarsie.
On May 24, 2014, defendant Jerome Myrie fired from his vehicle at two individuals in another car whom he believed were rival gang members. The targets, who were on a residential street in Canarsie, attempted to flee in reverse. The victims’ car was shot up and at least one stray bullet went through the window of a home of an individual having nothing to do with the gang rivalry. No injuries were reported.
On May 26, 2014, after Jerome Myrie allegedly discussed a plan to shoot up a party in Canarsie on Facebook, three individuals were shot and received non-fatal injuries while in the vicinity of a barbecue in Canarsie on Memorial Day. Myrie then took credit for the shooting on Facebook.
On May 30, 2014, defendant Kenny Dorcean exchanged gunfire with a rival gang member in Flatbush, then a few minutes later Dorcean opened fire again, striking 60-year-old Deleta Crawford, who was grocery shopping on Flatbush Avenue. The shooting left her paralyzed from the waist down.
On June 17, 2014, Jerome Myrie and Deleon Hutchinson, again “riding out” in the “Flossy,” shot a rival gang member from a car, then got out and shot him several more times.
On November 12, 2014, after using a young woman as bait to set up a meeting on Facebook with a rival gang member, defendants (and brothers) Tyreek Hayes and Shaquille Hayes plotted to trap and execute him on the street in Canarsie. Instead of a date, the victim received a gunshot wound to the face that left him with a broken jaw.
On April 17, 2015, defendant Oshane Fyffe shot and injured a rival gang member on Bedford Avenue, in Flatbush.
On May 14, 2015, defendants Tyreek and Shaquille Hayes were arrested after a search warrant executed at their home led to the recovery of a handgun, which subsequently proved to have Tyreek’s DNA on it.
On July 13, 2015, defendant Corey Roberts entered a courtyard at 866 Coney Island Avenue filled with people, including children playing on scooters, and opened fire, striking two innocent bystanders and narrowly missing two others. Before firing, Roberts allegedly declared his presence by announcing: “I’m Fresh, Corey is my name, from Ditmas, Newkirk.”
On July 15, 2015, defendant Oshane Fyffe shot and killed an individual, Adetunji Ajakaye, believed to be a rival gang member from Rugby Road a day after defendants Fremont and Dorcean were overheard discussing a growing dispute with the gang on Rugby Road and declaring that Oshane must take care of that.
On October 18, 2015, following the shooting death of Richard James in California defendants Javanni Moise, Jean Fremont, Jarmel Blake and others drove down to the DUMBO section of Brooklyn and engaged in a gun battle with rival gang members. After the gun battle, a black Cadillac was seen fleeing at a high rate of speed through Carroll Gardens. It was abandoned by Prospect Park and found to have multiple bullet holes, as well as Fremont’s fingerprints and Moise’s blood. Two weapons were discarded en route: a Glock 26 9mm had Moise’s DNA and matched shell casings at DUMBO and in the car; a Smith & Wesson 9mm matched Moise’s fingerprint on the magazine. Moise, whose DNA appeared in the Cadillac, was taken to Kings County Medical Center.
On December 30, 2015, Rahim Vincent was observed using his phone to access Facebook, while driving, and instead of submitting to a vehicle stop, led officers on a brief high speed chase that ended in a three-car accident. Vincent and his passenger fled, leaving behind a pistol with a 30-round clip, containing 19 bullets, under the passenger seat.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Kevin Muirhead, under the supervision of Sergeant Edward Deighan and Lieutenant Richard Zacarese of the Gun Violence Suppression Division.
Senior Assistant District Attorney Jane C. Kim of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit, assisted in the investigation under the supervision of Edward J. Carroll, Chief, and the overall supervision of Senior Executive Assistant District Attorney Mark E. Feldman, Crime Strategies and Investigations. Assistant District Attorney Lisa Berk, formerly of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, also assisted in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Jonathan R. Sennett, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division and Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
1. Alfaro-Barber, Paolo, dob: 7-28-91, Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
2. Blake, Jarmel, dob: 1-30-92, St. Marks Place, Brooklyn. Being sought by police.
3. Dorcean, Kenny, dob: 12-26-91, Rogers Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
4. Fraser, Jaquan, dob: 10-23-97, Sheffield Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
5. Fremont, Jean, dob: 6-25-91, East 25th Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
6. Fyffe, Oshane, dob: 11-4-96, East 21st Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
7. Hayes, Shaquille, dob: 7-30-96, Christopher Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
8. Hayes, Tyreek, dob: 1-4-89, Christopher Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
9. Hutchinson, Deleon, dob: 11-10-95, Hook Creek Boulevard, Valley Stream, N.Y. Bail status: remanded.
10. Julien, Marvin, dob:12-12-92, Rogers Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
11. Marcellus, Denzel, dob: 5-18-95, Brooklyn Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
12. Moise, Javanni, dob: 3-24-94, East 25th Street, Brooklyn. Awaiting extradition from Essex County, New Jersey.
13. Myrie, Jerome, dob: unknown, East 104th Street, Brooklyn. Being sought by police.
14. Roberts, Corey, dob: 5-22-92, Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
15. Simonise, Dave, dob: 12-25-95, East 84th Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
16. Vincent, Rahim, dob: 2-16-95, 286 East 45th Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
17. Waddell, Kwyme, dob: 12-25-91, East 25th Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
18. Williams, Christian, dob: 7-7-95, East 21st Street, Brooklyn. Bail status: remanded.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
