Brooklyn District Attorney Announces Summer High School Internships - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 20, 2016
Brooklyn District Attorney Announces Summer High School Internships
Joint Partnership with United Federation of Teachers; Program Offers Unique Exposure
To the Inner Workings of the Criminal Justice System
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, together with United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew, today announced that the District Attorney’s office is hosting a competitive summer internship program for high school students who live or attend school in the borough. Students with an interest in criminal justice or public service will participate in a comprehensive five-week program.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This inaugural program is a hands-on internship that will pair high school students with Assistant District Attorneys, offering the interns an insider’s view of the inner workings of one of the largest DA’s offices in the country. It’s a terrific opportunity to learn, grow and be mentored in a professional environment.”
President Mulgrew said, “This internship provides young people with real world experiences and expands the education process beyond the classroom. We are happy to join with the office of the Brooklyn District Attorney to help students acquire important new skills.”
Selected students will be assigned to a unit within the DA’s office and will support the work of Assistant District Attorneys and other members of the DA’s staff. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis using the Internet, news articles and legal periodicals; assist attorneys on pretrial matters; work on case preparation, discovery, file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in trial zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related  field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
The program is open to qualifying sophomores, juniors and rising seniors who must be able to commit to the entire duration of the program, which will run from July 11, 2016 to August 12, 2016, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday to Thursday and 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., on Friday.
Students will receive a weekly $150 stipend and a MetroCard. Applicants are required to supply their most recent school transcripts, a one-page resume, two letters of recommendation and evaluation forms, from either a teacher, coach, or mentor, and must submit a 300 word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s office and what impact they think it will have on their future personal and professional endeavors.
Completed documents should be emailed to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
edprograms@brooklynda.org
in pdf format, with the subject line: “Brooklyn DA Summer Internship Program,” no later than May 20, 2016.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
