Baltimore Man Sentenced to 25 Years in State Prison for Shooting Rampage in Bedford-Stuyvesant that Left Three People Injured - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 10, 2016
Baltimore Man Sentenced to 25 Years in State Prison for
Shooting Rampage in Bedford-Stuyvesant that Left Three People Injured
Defendant Fired Nine Times on Residential Block
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 27-year-old man was sentenced to 25 years in prison for striking three people after opening fire on a Bedford-Stuyvesant street.
District Attorney Thompson said, “It is truly remarkable that more innocent people weren’t injured or even killed when this defendant pulled out a gun and callously fired nine shots, in broad daylight, in a residential area. He deserves to spend a very long time behind bars for his outrageous and criminal behavior.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Cush Wright-El, 27, of Baltimore, Maryland. He was today sentenced to 25 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Suzanne Mondo. The defendant was convicted of one count of second-degree attempted murder, two counts of first-degree assault, one count of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and one count of first-degree reckless endangerment following a jury trial last month.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 1, 2014, at approximately 5:45 p.m., in the vicinity of Pulaski Street and Stuyvesant Avenue, the defendant, dressed in a dark hooded sweatshirt, approached William Mayo, 57, and his nephew, Kayshawn Mayo, 16, as they played a game of chess and opened fire, striking the older man in the ankle and the teenager in the shoulder and back, and grazing his head.
Furthermore, according to trial testimony, the defendant then ran down the street and continued firing, striking bystander Judith Daniel, 61, in the right leg, foot and left calf. William Mayo’s nephew, Demetrious Mayo, 28, got into his car and followed the defendant, allegedly ramming into him. The defendant was arrested and a .40 caliber weapon was recovered in a hooded jacket. Nine shell casings were recovered at the scene of the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Krystyn Tendy, also of the Grey Zone.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
