Bronx Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for Killing Brooklyn Woman, Disposing of Her Body - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 10, 2016
Bronx Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for
Killing Brooklyn Woman, Disposing of Her Body
Choked Victim, Cut off Her Fingertips,
Placed Body in Laundry Bag and Dumped it in Canarsie Pier
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 35-year-old Bronx man was sentenced to 18 years to life in prison for fatally choking a Brooklyn woman and stealing her money. The defendant cut off the victim’s fingertips, threw the body off of the Canarsie Pier in Brooklyn and used the victim’s banking cards to withdraw cash and make purchases in stores and fast food restaurants.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This horrific murder was made even worse by this defendant’s barbaric mutilation and subsequent dumping of the victim’s body into Jamaica Bay.  Such sadistic acts show that the defendant is simply unfit to remain in society and deserves every day of the 18-year prison sentence that he will now serve.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Charles Wright, 35, of 1627 Fulton Avenue in the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Gary to 18 years to life in prison following his guilty plea on January 25, 2016 to second-degree murder and two counts of fourth-degree grand larceny.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 25, 2014, the defendant got into an argument with Shaniqua Davis, 32, inside an apartment at 775 Blake Avenue in East New York, Brooklyn. He strangled the victim, used a knife to cut off her fingertips, tied her hands and feet, stuffed the body inside a large brown laundry bag, put her in the back of her car, drove her to the Canarsie Pier and threw her in the water. The body was found on a tidal island in Jamaica Bay inside the laundry bag on August 4, 2014.
The evidence showed that after killing the victim, the defendant used her ATM card to withdraw $141.50 from a grocery store across the street from her home. He also used her credit card to make purchases at a gas station, a Family Dollar store and Wendy’s and Burger King restaurants.
The defendant’s girlfriend Tamanika Evens, 39, who helped him dispose of the body, pleaded guilty to first-degree hindering prosecution and fourth-degree grand larceny on December 3, 2015, and is expected to be sentenced next month to two to six years in prison.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sara Kurtzberg, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
