Bay Ridge Insurance Agent Sentenced to 4 to 12 Years in Prison For Stealing from Elderly Victims as a Hate Crime - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 15, 2016
Bay Ridge Insurance Agent Sentenced to 4 to 12 Years in Prison
For Stealing from Elderly Victims as a Hate Crime
Used Financial Fraud to Pilfer Almost $4.5 Million in
Retirement Plans and Life Savings from 21 Victims
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a Staten Island man with a business in Bay Ridge was sentenced to four to 12 years in prison following his guilty plea to grand larceny as a hate crime, scheme to defraud and money laundering. The defendant targeted vulnerable, elderly victims, some of whom he had befriended, and scammed them out of almost $4.5 million in hard-earned savings.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant deserves to spend significant time in prison for his shameful exploitation of elderly people who lacked financial savvy. He took advantage of them and stole the money they saved for their Golden Years. We will be as aggressive in prosecuting anyone who commits crimes against senior citizens and other vulnerable residents of Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney said that the defendant, Paul Simoneschi, 70, of 57 Benedict Avenue in Staten Island, was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to an indeterminate term of four to 12 years in prison following his guilty plea on January 19, 2016 to first-degree scheme to defraud, first-degree money laundering and second-degree grand larceny as a hate crime. At the time of the plea, Simoneschi signed judgment orders of restitution totaling $4,477,562, which is the amount he stole from his victims.
Additionally, Simoneschi’s corporation, Simmons Planning Group & Agency, Inc., has pleaded guilty to first-degree scheme to defraud, first-degree money laundering and second-degree grand larceny.
The District Attorney said that between March 10, 2008 and  July 29, 2015, the defendant, who is a licensed insurance agent and financial planner, owned and operated Simmons Planning Group & Agency Inc., located at 8403 7
th
Avenue, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and sold insurance policies and annuities to his clients.
The defendant developed long-term relationships with some of these clients, including senior citizens who were not financially savvy and over time gained the trust of his clients. Some of the clients were Italian immigrants whom he spoke to in Italian. The investigation revealed that Simoneschi stole from his clients by various means, including:
Recommending that they surrender their insurance policies and invest the money with him. Instead of investing the money, he allegedly stole it by depositing it into his accounts that he controlled and using the money for himself.
In other instances, he allegedly surrendered his victims’ insurance policies without their permission or knowledge, forging their names and subsequently depositing the checks into accounts that he controlled.
Simoneschi tried to conceal his crimes by providing false documents to many of his victims, including copies of “new” policies opened on their behalf. At times, he gave them checks purported to be distributions from their policies or accounts, but which were actually checks from other accounts he controlled. In total, he stole $4.477 million from 21 victims, many of whom were in their 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s.  The victims lost amounts ranging from $1,000 to over $1 million.
The District Attorney said that the scheme was discovered after the defendant contacted one of his victims to tell the victim that he should reinvest his money in a new policy. The victim  declined the offer, but later discovered that his account had been raided and that only $2,000 remained when the balance should have been more than $300,000. He reported the matter to police. An investigation discovered the additional victims, who had not been aware that they had been victimized.
The case was investigated by Detective Mark Lombardo of the New York City Police Department’s 68
th
precinct detective squad, under the supervision of Captain Aaron Klein and Sergeant Regina Debellis.
It was additionally investigated by Detective Investigator Hubert Dixon and Supervising Detective Investigator Robert Addonizio, of the District Attorney’s Investigations Bureau, under the overall supervision Chief Investigator Richard Bellucci. Financial Investigators Ludwig Sanchez and Shaakira Calnick, also of the DA’s Office, assisted in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Maria Leonardi and Heidi Bausk of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Felice Sontupe, Chief of the Frauds Bureau, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division and Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
