Hospital Patient Sentenced to 17 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Beating another Patient - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, July 12, 2016
Hospital Patient Sentenced to 17 Years to Life in Prison
For Fatally Beating another Patient
Victim Attacked in Shower, Defendant Convicted of Murder Following Jury Trial
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 23-year-old man who was in a psychiatric facility has been sentenced to 17 years to life in prison for attacking a fellow patient in the shower, beating him to death and strangling him with a towel.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant brutally and senselessly attacked a fellow patient, killing him. With today’s sentence, justice has been served.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Spence Andrews, 23, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, in Brooklyn. He was convicted of one count of second-degree murder last month following a jury trial and sentenced today to 17 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Miriam Cyrulnik.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on March 19, 2013 at about 9 p.m., at St. John’s Interfaith Hospital, located at 1545 Atlantic Avenue, the defendant repeatedly struck Conrad Delimar, 47, about the face, while the victim was taking a shower. The defendant then climbed on top of Delimar while he was on the floor and continued to strike him about the head and face numerous times with closed fists. He then tied a towel around the victim’s neck.
A day earlier, the defendant’s grandmother called 911 after he returned home and was behaving erratically, according to trial testimony. He was then taken by ambulance to the hospital and admitted for psychiatric evaluation.
The next day a nurse observed him standing by a pay phone while soaking wet, as though he had just emerged from the shower. The defendant alleged that the victim groped him in the shower, according to trial testimony. A nurse went to investigate and found the victim in a pool of his own blood, unresponsive, on the bathroom floor. He had been severely beaten and had a towel tied around his neck.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Howard Jackson of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Iris Das, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprise Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
