Seven Brooklyn Men Charged in Narcotics Takedown in Clinton Hill; Numerous “Open-Air” Drug Sales near Schools, Places of Worship - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 19, 2016
Seven Brooklyn Men Charged in Narcotics Takedown in Clinton Hill;
Numerous “Open-Air” Drug Sales near Schools, Places of Worship
Approximately 48 Transactions Made During Eight-Month Investigation
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, together with New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton, today announced that seven people have been arrested for allegedly selling heroin, crack-cocaine, marijuana and other narcotics to undercover officers over the past eight months as part of an anti-drug initiative in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Thompson said, “These defendants have been charged for allegedly dealing crack-cocaine, heroin and other drugs in broad daylight and near schools and houses of worship in total disregard for the children and people who attend them.  We did this investigation and made these arrests because we’re determined to rid our communities of the scourge of drug dealing.”
The District Attorney said that the investigation began in September 2015 following community complaints regarding drug sales in the confines of the 88
th
precinct in Clinton Hill. Specifically, the investigation focused on a several-block area extending from Gates Avenue in the north to Atlantic Avenue in the south and from Classon Avenue in the east to Clinton Avenue in the west. In addition, a number of the transactions took place in Bedford-Stuyvesant in the vicinity of Fulton Street and Nostrand Avenue.
Over the course of the investigation, undercover officers made approximately 48 buys of crack cocaine, heroin, Klonopin, marijuana and Xanax. The drugs were branded with various names, including “Red Dragon,” “Death Strike” and “Jack Daniels.” During one street transaction, an undercover officer was sold 699 glassines of heroin at $10 apiece.
The majority of the buys were made within 1,000 feet of a school, including: Public School 11, located on Waverly Avenue; Middle School 35, located on Macdonough Street; and Leadership Preparatory Charter School, located on Macon Street. In addition, many of the transactions took place in the vicinity of a senior center, residential homes and several small businesses. Further, approximately three transactions were made directly in front of or a few steps away from religious institutions.  Specifically, a number of transactions occurred inside an abandoned residential building located at 488 Waverly Avenue. Following the investigation, the building was seized by the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
According to the investigation, many of the drug buys were conducted out in the open or via drive-up delivery, where drug dealers allegedly delivered narcotics upon request. The transactions occurred between the early morning hours, as early as 7:45 a.m., into the late evening.
The defendants were variously charged in indictments or complaints with criminal sale of a controlled substance in or near school grounds, second- and third-degree criminal sale of a controlled substance, third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and related counts.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Brian DePalo, of the Major Case Narcotics Bureau Brooklyn North, under the supervision of ­­­Inspector Joseph Kenny and Sergeant Robert Maloney, of the Major Case Narcotics Bureau Brooklyn North.
Senior Assistant District Attorney Jane Kim, of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit and Gregory Thomas, Senior Executive for Law Enforcement Operations, assisted in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ian Massar, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Tara Lenich, Deputy Chief, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau.
Defendant Addendum:
Eben Barnes (aka Whispers), 26, of 136 Cambridge Place, Brooklyn.
Keith Harding (aka Murray), 37, of 769 Saint Marks Place, Brooklyn.
Willie Moore (aka Nick), 58, of 395 Clinton Avenue, Brooklyn.
Maurice Wright (aka Black Hat), 36, of 30 Claver Place, Brooklyn.
Shane Lyons (aka Rock), 44, of 1605 Fulton Street, Brooklyn.
Deyshaun Wigfall (aka Day Day), 20, of 1084 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn.
Omar Abdelkader (aka Omar), 26, of 360 95
th
Street, Brooklyn.
#
A criminal complaint is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
