Brooklyn Gang Member Sentenced to 20 Years to Life for Fatally Shooting Rival in Broad Daylight - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 10, 2016
Brooklyn Gang Member Sentenced to 20 Years to Life for
Fatally Shooting Rival in Broad Daylight
Captured on High-Definition Video Surveillance Shooting Victim in Head
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 24-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 20 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to second-degree murder for fatally shooting a man in Flatbush, Brooklyn, killing him. The morning shooting was captured on high-definition surveillance video that clearly captured the defendant.
District Attorney Thompson said, “We will not allow gang members to settle their scores with guns, endangering innocent residents and sowing fear in our communities. We will prosecute them and send them to prison for many years, just like we did to this defendant, who killed a rival in the street in broad daylight.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Avon Simmons, 24, of 2505 Bedford Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Martin Murphy to 20 years to life in prison following his guilty plea to second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on February 9, 2016.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on August 13, 2014 at 8:30 a.m., the defendant fired multiple shots at Prinso Ulysse, 26, who was standing outside of 2149 Cortelyou Road in Flatbush, Brooklyn. A bullet struck the side of the victim’s head and he suffered extensive hemorrhaging and swelling to the brain. He died in Kings County Hospital on September 3, 2014.
The shooting was captured on high definition surveillance video that clearly showed the defendant stepping into the roadway, firing a gun at the victim, who was on the sidewalk, and then walking away. The defendant is a member of the G-Stone Crips gang and likely targeted the victim in retaliation for a past incident in which the defendant’s brother was shot.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Patrick O’Connor of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
