Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 17 Years to Life for Shooting Two Victims, One Fatally, after Altercation - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 6, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 17 Years to Life for
Shooting Two Victims, One Fatally, after Altercation
Shot Victim Three Times Following Confrontation on Sunset Park Stoop
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 25-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 17 years to life in prison for the murder of another man whom he shot to death after they had a confrontation in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Another victim was shot in the leg.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant opened fire on a residential block, killing a man and wounding another. We will not tolerate this type of gun violence on our streets and will ensure that those who kill and injure others will be held accountable and sent to prison for many years.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Valentin Torres, 25, of 538 82
nd
Street in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alan Marrus to 17 years to life in prison following his conviction on April 8, 2016 on charges of second-degree murder, second-degree assault and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, at approximately 1 a.m. on August 25, 2013, the defendant was sitting outside 744 39
th
Street in Sunset Park, Brooklyn when he was approached by Johnny Rosado, 35. The two got into a fight over a comment the defendant purportedly made to a woman, according to testimony.
The defendant pulled out a revolver and fired the gun multiple times, striking Rosado three times and also hitting another man in the leg, according to witnesses. The defendant was arrested in New Jersey about two weeks later.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Melissa Carvajal, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Kenneth Taub, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
