Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for Murder at the Walt Whitman Houses in Fort Greene - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 20, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for
Murder at the Walt Whitman Houses in Fort Greene
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a Fort Greene man has been sentenced to 22 years to life in prison following his conviction earlier this month on charges of murder and criminal possession of a weapon for the 2014 killing of a 42-year-old Boerum Hill man.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Keeping the residents of Brooklyn safe from senseless gun violence is my top priority. This case shows our resolve to punish anyone who uses guns to settle scores.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Shaquille Upson, 22, of North Portland Avenue, in the Walt Whitman Houses. He was sentenced to 22 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun, following his conviction earlier this month on charges of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 14, 2014 at approximately 12:10 a.m., the defendant fired multiple shots at Armal Mallory, 42, who was standing outside of 79 North Oxford Walk, which is located at the Walt Whitman Houses in Fort Greene.  The victim was shot multiple times and sustained gunshot wounds to the chest, leg and neck, ultimately dying of his injuries
An eyewitness, who knew the defendant, observed the defendant shoot the deceased, according to trial testimony. The witness heard several more shots as he fled. Video surveillance footage showed the defendant entering a nearby building shortly after the shooting, wearing clothing that matched the description given by the eyewitness. In addition, the defendant made an incriminating Facebook post and an incriminating phone call from Rikers Island, which were both introduced into evidence at trial.
The case was investigated by Detective Herbert Martin of the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad and Detective Joseph Rodriguez of the 88
th
Precinct Detective Squad. District Attorney Detective Investigators Robert Galvin and Chip Nigro assisted in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Lewis Lieberman, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
