Baltimore Man Convicted of Attempted Murder And Other Charges for Shooting Three Individuals in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, April 25, 2016
Baltimore Man Convicted of Attempted Murder
And Other Charges for Shooting Three Individuals in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 27-year-old man was convicted of attempted murder and other charges for opening fire on a Bedford-Stuyvesant street, striking three people. He faces up to 75 years in state prison when he is sentenced.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant brazenly pulled out a handgun and fired nine times on a street filled with people going about their business. He struck three people, all of whom are lucky to be alive. Now he’s been held accountable and faces many years in prison.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Cush Wright-El, 27, of Baltimore, Maryland. He was convicted of one count of second-degree attempted murder, two counts of first-degree assault, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and first-degree reckless endangerment following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Suzanne Mondo. He will be sentenced on May 10, 2016, at which time he faces a maximum of up to 75 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 1, 2014, at approximately 5:45 p.m., in the vicinity of Pulaski Street and Stuyvesant Avenue, the defendant, dressed in a dark hooded sweatshirt, approached William Mayo, 57, and his nephew, Kayshawn Mayo, 16, as they played a game of chess and opened fire, striking the older man in the ankle and the teenager in the shoulder and back, and grazing his head.
Furthermore, according to trial testimony, the defendant then ran down the street and continued firing, striking bystander Judith Daniel, 61, in the right leg, foot and left calf. William Mayo’s nephew, Demetrious Mayo, 28, got into his car and followed the defendant, allegedly ramming into him. The defendant was arrested and a .40 caliber weapon was recovered in a hooded jacket. Nine shell casings were recovered at the scene of the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Krystyn Tendy, also of the Grey Zone.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
