67-Year-Old Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Murder Of 23-Year-Old Brooklyn Father - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 30, 2016
67-Year-Old Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for
Murder Of 23-Year-Old Brooklyn Father
Defendant Stabbed Victim during Dispute
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 67-year-old man was sentenced to 20 years to life in prison for the 2013 stabbing death of a Brooklyn man in Sunset Park. He received an additional six years in prison for assaulting another man who tried to aid the victim.
District Attorney Thompson said, “Two young children will grow up without a father all because of this defendant’s senseless acts of violence, for which he now will spend essentially the rest of his life behind bars.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Juan Ramos, 67, of 239 55
th
Street in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent
Del Giudice to
20 years to life in prison following his conviction
last month at a jury trial on charges of
second-degree murder and an additional six years for his conviction on charges of second-degree assault. The judge ordered the sentences to run consecutive.
According to trial testimony, on September 29, 2013, at approximately 3 p.m., the defendant fatally stabbed Giovanni Rodriguez-Arias following an argument. The victim, 23, was stabbed in the stomach and arm with a knife hidden beneath the defendant’s sweater. The victim was transported to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead. A second victim was stabbed in the hand while attempting to resolve the dispute.
Shortly after the incident, the defendant was identified by the New York Police Department as a suspect in Mr. Rodriguez-Arias’ fatal stabbing and a wanted poster with the defendant’s photo was released to the public. Following a tip, the defendant was apprehended on the roof of a Sunset Park building.
The case was investigated by Detective Elson Winchester and Detective Albert Lamoglia of the New York City Police Department’s 72
nd
Precinct.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ernest Chin of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
