Two Gang Members Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting of Rival on Coney Island Street - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, July 26, 2016
Two Gang Members Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for
Fatal Shooting of Rival on Coney Island Street
Lured Victim from Store and Shot Him Repeatedly
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that two gang members were sentenced to 25 years to life in prison following their murder conviction in connection with the death of a rival. They lured the victim out of a store then ran up behind him and shot multiple times.
District Attorney Thompson said, “These defendants committed a cold-blooded murder by luring a rival and ambushing him from behind. They received a just punishment today for this outrageous act of violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Gregory (“Douggie”) Ammonds, 25, of Brownsville, Brooklyn and Kevin (“Cheese”) Perry, 40, of Rockaway Beach, Queens. Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Gary sentenced Ammonds on July 20, 2016 to the maximum term of 25 years to life in prison and today imposed the same sentence on Perry following their conviction on June 16, 2016 on one count of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on December 19, 2012 at about 6:15 p.m., after Perry lured Henry Dankwah out of a grocery store Ammonds and an accomplice, Michael (“Mikey”) Torres, 24, both shot and killed the victim on West 36th Street between Neptune and Mermaid Avenues in Coney Island, Brooklyn.
The evidence showed that earlier in the day Dankwah was heard making threats against Ammonds after which Dankwah went to a store in the vicinity of West 36th Street and Neptune Avenue. Perry started a conversation with him inside the store and then exited the store with him and the two of them proceeded to walk on West 36th Street. Torres and Ammonds, who were waiting across the street from the store, then crept up behind the victim. Torres, armed with a .45-caliber firearm, and Ammonds, armed with a .9-mm firearm, opened fire, striking the victim a total of 13 times.
The three perpetrators, all of whom were members of the “Sex Money Murder” street gang, were arrested in March and April of 2014, following an investigation.
Torres, of Castle Hill in the Bronx, pleaded guilty on February 17, 2016 to second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. He was sentenced on April 1, 2016 by Justice Gary to 15 years to life in prison.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Patrick O’Connor, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Ian Massar, also of VCE, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
