Two Gang Members Convicted for Fatal Shooting of Rival in Coney Island Street - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 17, 2016
Two Gang Members Convicted for Fatal Shooting of
Rival in Coney Island Street
Lured Victim from Store and Shot Him Repeatedly
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that two gang members have been convicted in connection with the death of a rival whom they lured out of a store and then ran up from behind him and shot him multiple times to death.
District Attorney Thompson said, “These violent defendants conspired to shoot and kill a man in the middle of the street. We will simply not allow gang members to fire guns in our communities, but will investigate each and every shooting and hold all perpetrators accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as, Gregory (“Douggie”) Ammonds, 25, of Brownsville, Brooklyn, and Kevin (“Cheese”) Perry, 39, of Rockaway Beach, Queens. They were convicted yesterday of one count of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial in front of Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Gary. The defendants face a maximum sentence of 55 years to life when they are sentenced on July 20, 2016.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on December 19, 2012 at about 6:15 p.m., after Perry lured Henry Dankwah out of a grocery store Ammonds and an accomplice, Michael (“Mikey”) Torres, 24, both shot and killed Henry Dankwah on West 36
th
Street between Neptune and Mermaid Avenues in Coney Island, Brooklyn.
The evidence showed that earlier in the day Dankwah was heard making threats against Ammonds after which Dankwah went to a store in the vicinity of West 36
th
Street and Neptune Avenue.  Perry started a conversation with him inside the store and then exited the store with him and the two of them proceeded to walk on West 36
th
Street.  Torres and Ammonds, who were waiting across the street from the store, then crept up behind the victim and Torres shot him with a .45-caliber firearm and Ammonds with a .9-mm firearm a total of thirteen times.
The three perpetrators, all of whom were members of the “Sex Money Murder” street gang, were arrested in March and April of 2014, following an investigation.
Torres, of Castle Hill in the Bronx, pleaded guilty on February 17, 2016 to second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and was sentenced on April 1, 2016 by Justice Gary to 15 years to life in prison.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Patrick O’Connor, Deputy Chief, as assisted by Assistant District Attorney Ian Massar of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Chief, and the overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney William E. Schaeffer, Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
