Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison For Killing a Man, Wounding Two Others - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 5, 2016
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison
For Killing a Man, Wounding Two Others
Opened Fire at Group of People Playing Dice in Brownsville
Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson today announced that a 24-year-old man was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for shooting up a dice game in Brownsville in 2012, killing a 20-year-old man and wounding two others.
District Attorney Thompson said, “This defendant’s senseless act of gun violence makes him unfit to remain part of our society. He deserves to be in prison for many years to pay for the life he took and the injuries he caused.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Lawrence Harris, 24, of Kingsborough 7 Walk in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 25 years to life in prison. He was convicted of second-degree murder, first-degree attempted assault, reckless endangerment and related counts after a jury trial following a jury trial earlier this year.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on June 28, 2012, at 11:30 p.m., the defendant opened fire on a group of men who were playing dice by the corner of Sutter Avenue and Union Street in Brownsville, Brooklyn. Trendon Franklin, 20, was struck three times in the chest, abdomen and arm, and died of his injuries. Another victim was grazed by a bullet in the chest and struck in the index finger. A third victim was shot in the back. The defendant was arrested in April 2013.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Patrick L. O’Connor and Assistant District Attorney Ashlyn Miranda of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
