East New York Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison For Three Gun-Point Robberies - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 10, 2017
East New York Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison
For Three Gun-Point Robberies
Wounded One Victim and Fired at Another; Incidents Took Place Two Days Apart
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 23-year-old East New York man has been sentenced to 21 years in prison for committing three robberies during a two-day span. In one incident, the defendant shot a fleeing victim in the leg and also shot at another victim after a failed carjacking attempt.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant went on a violent crime spree. He used a gun to rob and to shoot at innocent people, one of whom was shot while trying to escape. He is clearly a danger to society and today’s sentence ensures that he will not be able to terrorize other members of our community for many years.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Anthony Samuel, 23, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 21 years in prison following his guilty plea last month to first-degree robbery.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 10, 2014, at about 5:30 a.m., outside 630 Utica Avenue, in East Flatbush, the defendant approached three women and two men in a parking lot behind a diner and displayed a gun. The three women fled in their car. One of the men then handed a chain to the defendant and fled. The defendant fired at him, striking him in the knee.
Later that morning, at 6:50 a.m., outside 1470 East New York in Brownsville, the defendant approached a man who had just parked his car and brandished a gun, demanding the victim’s belongings. The victim handed the defendant his car keys, wallet and credit cards, the evidence showed.
On August 12, 2014, at approximately 6:30 a.m., outside 2 Paerdegat 9th Street in Canarsie, the defendant approached a victim who was moving his cars to comply with alternate side street parking regulations. The defendant exited a vehicle, pulled out a handgun and demanded the victim’s wallet and keys. The victim complied, and then fled. The defendant attempted to drive away in the victim’s car, but failed. He exited the vehicle and discharged one shot in the victim’s direction, but missed him. The incident was captured on video surveillance. Police later recovered a 9-mm shell casing and the defendant’s DNA was recovered from the gear shift of the victim’s car.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Brian Wagner and Assistant District Attorney Nicholas Kyriacou, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of David Klestzick, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
