Former Employee of Charter Bus Company Indicted for Stealing over $1 million in Amusement Park Tickets from Employer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 30, 2017
Former Employee of Charter Bus Company Indicted
For Stealing over $1 million in Amusement Park Tickets from Employer
Used Company Credit Card to Buy and Misappropriate over 36,000 Tickets
To Dorney Park and Six Flags Great Adventure
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Staten Island woman has been indicted on charges of grand larceny and criminal possession of stolen property for allegedly stealing amusement park tickets valued at over $1 million from her employer, a Red Hook-based charter bus company. The defendant used the company credit card to purchase tickets that were later redeemed at the parks but unconnected to any company offerings.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly engaged in a long-term and large-scale fraud scheme, stealing over $1 million in property from her employer, a local business in Brooklyn, which entrusted her with its credit card. With today’s indictment, we intend to hold the defendant fully accountable for her egregious acts.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Rosemarie Bader, 51, of Staten Island. The defendant was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which she is charged with one count of first-degree grand larceny, one count of second-degree grand larceny, one count of first-degree criminal possession of stolen property and one count of second-degree criminal possession of stolen property. The defendant was ordered held on bail of $500,000 bond or $250,000 cash and to return to court on October 11, 2017. She faces up to 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison if convicted of the top count with which she is charged.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, the defendant worked for Best Trails and Travel Corporation (BTTC), a charter bus company located at 5 Sigourney Street in Red Hook, Brooklyn. BTTC offers private and corporate charter bus packages to a variety of locations, including regional amusement parks and casinos and often including admission to the destinations. The defendant, a 16-year employee of the company, was most recently employed as the Sales Director – a role in which she alone managed and coordinated the various amusement park trip packages offered by BTTC to its clientele: She ordered the tickets from the amusement parks, took delivery of the tickets, secured the tickets in a safe to which she alone had access, placed bus dispatch orders and distributed the appropriate number of theme park tickets to the bus drivers and trip leaders. The defendant was authorized to use BTTC’s American Express credit card to pay for the theme park tickets for the packages.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, between approximately January 2014 and November 2016, the defendant allegedly used the BTTC credit card to over-order tickets to two of the company’s destinations, Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, New Jersey and Dorney Park in Allentown, Pennsylvania, using the card to pay for over 36,000 tickets that were unconnected to any BTTC bus package but were redeemed at the parks. The defendant allegedly took delivery of the tickets by intercepting UPS and Federal Express deliveries and storing the tickets in a personal safe under her desk to which only she had access. The vast majority of the tickets the defendant allegedly over-ordered and possessed were never used to fulfill BTTC’s bus-and-ticket packages, nor were the unused and unauthorized tickets returned to the amusement parks for refund, as was the company’s usual practice. Rather, the defendant kept those tickets for her own use without authorization of BTTC.
According to the indictment, the defendant’s alleged scheme was discovered in 2016 when an accounting by her employer revealed company ticket orders to Dorney Park and Six Flags Great Adventure far exceeding the actual bus seats available to the parks through company-run trips during applicable time periods. In total, between approximately January 2014 and November 2016, the defendant allegedly used the BTTC American Express credit card to purchase 23,136 tickets to Dorney Park and 13,102 tickets to Six Flags Great Adventure that were redeemed at the parks, according to the investigation, but were unconnected to any BTTC trips. Combined, based upon the average cost of the tickets allegedly misappropriated by the defendant, she stole at least $1,000,533 worth of tickets from the company. The defendant’s employment was terminated in October 2016.
The case was investigated by Supervising Detective Investigator Michael Seminara and Detective Investigator Jacqueline Klapak, both of the District Attorney’s Investigations Bureau, under the overall supervision of Chief Investigator Joseph Piraino.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Deidre Moskowitz, of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Dana Roth, Deputy Chief of the Frauds Bureau, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division, and Assistant District Attorney Mark Feldman, Senior Executive for Investigations and Crime Strategies.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
