Fifth Alleged Gunman Indicted for the Murder of Carey Gabay during J'ouvert Celebration in 2015 - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 15, 2017
Fifth Alleged Gunman Indicted for the Murder of
Carey Gabay during J’ouvert Celebration in 2015
Previously Charged with Possessing Machine Gun at Scene;
New Evidence Shows he Allegedly Took Part in Gun Battle between
Warring Gangs in Crowded Street Where at least Eight Guns were Fired
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a fifth man has been charged with the murder of Carey Gabay outside the Ebbets Field Houses in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, on Labor Day 2015. Like the other defendants, who allegedly engaged in mutual combat during the early morning shootout, the latest defendant, previously charged with weapons possession, is being held equally responsible and was also indicted for murder.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We have made a promise to the family of Carey Gabay to hold accountable everyone who took part in the shootout that took his life. With this indictment, we have taken another step in keeping this promise and we will not rest until every person who brazenly fired a gun during that devastating incident – creating a killing field amid a crowded celebration – is brought to justice.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Stanley Elianor, 26, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, four counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and first-degree reckless endangerment. He was ordered held without bail. The defendant faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count with which he is charged.
The defendant was previously arraigned in October 2015 on an indictment that charged him with criminal possession of a weapon for allegedly having a loaded machine gun at the scene. Further investigation revealed that he allegedly also fired a small caliber gun, inciting additional violence as warring gang members engaged in a gun battle.
In June 2016, Micah Alleyne, 26, of Jamaica, Queens; Tyshawn Crawford, 22, of East New York, Brooklyn; and Keith Luncheon, 25, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn were indicted for murder and related charges for their alleged role in the shooting. A fourth defendant, Kenny Bazile, 32, was indicted on similar charges in September 2016.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the incident took place during the early morning hours of September 7, 2015 in front of 1680 Bedford Avenue, which is part of the Ebbets Field Houses in Crown Heights. At the time of the shooting, the patio and street in front of the building were filled with hundreds of people, many of whom were celebrating J’ouvert, a traditional predawn festival that precedes the annual West Indian American Day Parade.
The building’s large patio was known to be controlled by the Folk Nation street gang, which has been engaged in a years-long war with the 8-Trey faction of the Crips gang, among others. Due to heightened tensions and despite the annual celebration, there were numerous armed gang members in the area that morning with the intention of shooting at rivals on sight, the investigation found.
At about 3:40 a.m., a group of 8-Trey members walked up from Montgomery Street, apparently heading toward the J’ouvert procession on Empire Boulevard, about two blocks to the south. Their presence in “enemy territory” sparked a gun battle between Folk Nation members and their affiliates, who were shooting from the street and the patio, and the 8-Trey members who fired from the street before fleeing north. An estimated two to three dozen shots were fired in two consecutive volleys from at least eight firearms, according to the investigation.
At the same time, Carey Gabay, 43, a first deputy counsel for the Empire State Development Corporation and a former assistant counsel to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, was walking north on Bedford Avenue with his brother and a couple of friends after attending the J’ouvert procession. They happened upon the front of the patio just as the gun fight broke out. The group ran to a parking lot located between the patio and the street and ducked near parked cars. A bullet struck Mr. Gabay in the head and he was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where he died a week later on September 15, 2015.
Elianor has been indicted for depraved indifference murder under the theory of mutual combat, as were the four other co-defendants, meaning that the alleged gunmen all entered into a de-facto agreement to engage in a gun battle. Under this theory, all are equally responsible for the murder, regardless of who fired the bullet that struck Mr. Gabay, and a claim of self-defense does not apply.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Lorraine Winters of Brooklyn South Homicide Squad, Detective Sambath Ouk and Detective Raymond Weng of the 71st Precinct and Detective Michael Gaynor of the Brooklyn South Homicide Squad, under the supervision of Lieutenant Chris Marrow, 71st Precinct Squad Commander, Lieutenant Christopher Minogue of the Brooklyn South Homicide Squad, Captain Nicholas Fiore of Brooklyn South Detectives, Deputy Chief Vincent DiDonato, Assistant Chief Patrick Conry and the overall supervision of Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Emily Dean and Olatokunbo Olaniyan of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief, and Mark Feldman, Senior Executive Assistant District Attorney for Crime Strategies and Investigations.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
