Bronx Teen Indicted for Sexual Assaults of Four Women in Brooklyn Over the Course of Four-Hour Terror Spree in Crown Heights - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 16, 2017
Bronx Teen Indicted for Sexual Assaults of Four Women in Brooklyn
Over the Course of Four-Hour Terror Spree in Crown Heights
Defendant Allegedly Attacked Victims after Following Them Home
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Bronx teenager has been arraigned on a 32-count indictment in which he is charged with burglary as a sexually motivated felony, sexual abuse, forcible touching, and other charges for an alleged Crown Heights terror spree that took place over the course of four hours last month.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly terrorized four innocent women during a frightening crime spree in Crown Heights last month. Luckily, they managed to fight him off. He is clearly a danger to society and we will now seek to hold him responsible for his alleged actions.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Dennis Ofuoma, 19, of Tremont, in the Bronx. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Miller on a 32-count indictment in which he is charged with first-degree burglary as a sexually motivated felony, multiple counts of second-degree burglary as a sexually motivated felony, first-degree sexual abuse, forcible touching and other charges. He was remanded and ordered to return to court on September 28, 2017. The defendant faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, from approximately 11:50 p.m. on July 12, 2017, to approximately 3:40 a.m. on July 13, 2017, the defendant followed four separate women into their apartment buildings and attacked them. All four of the women fought the defendant off, including one who sprayed mace at the defendant. All four attacks occurred within the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
The defendant was allegedly identified from video surveillance recovered from two of the locations and the surrounding neighborhood, and was arrested two weeks later.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lauren Silver, and Assistant District Attorney Sarah Arena, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
