Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in State Prison for Attempted Rape of Woman in Williamsburg - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, August 8, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in State Prison for
Attempted Rape of Woman in Williamsburg
Victim Rescued By Man and Stepson Passersby Who Witnessed the Attack
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a 31-year-old man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for attempting to rape a woman who was walking on a sidewalk in Williamsburg. A man and his stepson who had just exited their car witnessed the man on top of the woman and came to her aid.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I commend the men who thwarted this horrific attack and helped the police catch this violent defendant. He’s a dangerous person who has now been held accountable for his actions and removed from the streets of Brooklyn.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Todd Deas, 31, of Porter Street, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglas to 10 years in prison and 15 years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree attempted rape on July 18, 2017.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 18, 2016, at approximately 12:25 a.m., in the vicinity of White and McKibben Street, the defendant followed a 27-year-old woman as she walked along McKibben Street, trying to talk to her. The victim attempted to ignore the defendant and walk away from him when he grabbed her arm. The next thing the victim remembered was waking up in the ambulance.
A 28 year-old man and his 46-year-old stepfather, who had just parked their car, heard a disturbance and saw the woman lying on the ground and the defendant on top of her, repeatedly slamming her body onto the ground. When the men approached, the defendant stood up, tightened his pants and walked away. The older man stayed with the woman, whose pantyhose and underwear had been ripped off of one leg.
Meanwhile, the younger man pursued the defendant on foot and called 911; he flagged down a passing patrol car and canvassed the area with police. The defendant was apprehended on Harrison Place.
The woman was beaten about the face; one eye was swollen shut and the other badly bruised, she also suffered numerous cuts and scratches on her face and neck and a bone fracture of her inner neck. She had also been strangled, which left her in and out of consciousness.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lauren Silver and Assistant District Attorney Michelle Haddad, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims’ Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
