Queens Man Indicted for Serial Sexual Attacks in Brooklyn; Attacked Three Women during Early Morning Crime Spree - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 3, 2017
Queens Man Indicted for Serial Sexual Attacks in Brooklyn;
Attacked Three Women during Early Morning Crime Spree
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 26-year-old man has been arraigned on a 22-count indictment in which he is charged with sexually assaulting two women and attempting to assault a third woman in three separate attacks in East New York last month.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is allegedly a serial sex offender and a violent predator who targeted women walking alone in the early morning hours. We intend to hold him fully accountable for these cowardly attacks.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Keith Wiggins, 26, of South Ozone Park, Queens. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Miller on an indictment in which he is charged with predatory sexual assault, first-degree rape, first-degree criminal sexual act, first-degree burglary as a sexually-motivated felony, first-degree sexual abuse, endangering the welfare of a child, and other charges. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on January 10, 2018.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 10, 2017, at 6:45 a.m., in the vicinity of 609 Fountain Avenue, the defendant allegedly approached a 29-year-old woman, removed a silver firearm from his waistband, held it to her side and walked her to the rear of the building. He then allegedly ordered her to remove her clothing, raped her, and forced her to perform a sex act, while pointing a gun at her head. He then fled the location.
It is alleged that, according to the investigation, shortly thereafter, at approximately 7:13 a.m., in the vicinity of 675 Lincoln Avenue, the defendant approached a 15-year-old girl, displayed a silver firearm and ordered her to turn around or he would shoot her. The victim fled and the defendant left the area.
Finally, it is alleged, at 8:30 a.m., in East New York, the defendant approached a 30-year-old woman, displayed a silver firearm and ordered her inside of her residence. Once inside the hallway, the defendant forced the woman to perform a sex act while pointing a gun at her head and touched her buttocks. He then fled the location.
The police tracked down the suspect attempting to return a car to a rental agency at John F. Kennedy Airport later that morning.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Andrea Mauro, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
