Brooklyn Man Convicted of Murder for Fatally Shooting Man During Argument in Bushwick Nail Salon - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, January 20, 2017
Brooklyn Man Convicted of Murder for Fatally Shooting Man
During Argument in Bushwick Nail Salon
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 29-year-old Brooklyn man has been convicted of murder for fatally shooting a man who was engaged in an argument with the defendant’s friend in a Bushwick nail salon.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant inserted himself into an argument and escalated it tragically, taking a man’s life and putting others at grave risk. He’s now been held accountable for his actions.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Kenneth Bryant, 29, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of second-degree murder and one count of criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice. He will be sentenced on February 8, 2017, at which time he faces up to 25 years to life in prison.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 23, 2014, at approximately 2:20 p.m., the defendant and a friend were in a nail salon at 1165 Myrtle Avenue in Bushwick, Brooklyn. The victim, Demetrius Mayo, 28, entered the salon with two friends and an argument ensued between the victim and the defendant’s friend. The argument turned physical, at which point the defendant shot the victim four times, killing him.
According to trial testimony, the defendant and his friend fled the scene, but the defendant left behind his backpack and ID. An eyewitness receiving a manicure/pedicure in the salon identified the defendant and his friend. The defendant was apprehended in Bridgeport, Connecticut on April 15, 2015 and admitted to the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lewis Lieberman, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Krystyn Tendy, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Grey Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
