Brooklyn Man Indicted for Raping his Ex-Girlfriend After Killing her Friend with a Knife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 1, 2017
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Raping his Ex-Girlfriend
After Killing her Friend with a Knife
Pushed his Way through Window, Slit Woman’s Throat and Assaulted
Second Victim as her Daughter hid in Bedroom
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 40-year-old Brooklyn man has been indicted for first-degree murder, rape, burglary and many other charges for entering his ex-girlfriend’s apartment in Seagate, slitting her friend’s throat, and raping and holding her captive for hours as her 11-year-old daughter hid in a bedroom.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The depravity of this defendant’s alleged actions is almost beyond words. He inflicted unimaginable terror and horror on this family and took the life of their innocent and beloved friend. I intend to make sure that he is held responsible for each and every crime with which he is charged.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Ruslan Baimov, 40, of Seagate, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog on an indictment in which he is charged with first-degree murder, first-degree rape, first-degree unlawful imprisonment, first-degree burglary, predatory sexual assault and related counts. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on February 9, 2018. The defendant faces up to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted of the top count.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, around midnight on October 29, 2017, the defendant allegedly entered the Seagate apartment of his former girlfriend, who had recently ended their relationship, by pushing in a window air conditioner unit. When the 38-year-old woman came out of the shower, she found him in the kitchen, holding a knife to the throat of her friend, 42-year-old Larysa Saad, who was visiting her that night.
The defendant allegedly slit Saad’s throat and she was left bleeding from the neck for hours. He then cut the other woman’s clothes, ran the knife up and down her body, causing a laceration to her leg, and raped her. He remained in the apartment for approximately five hours before leaving. The rape victim’s 11-year-old daughter was hiding in a bedroom during the incident.
Saad was taken to Coney Island Hospital, where she died of her injuries on November 7, 2017.
The defendant is also charged with first-degree burglary, first-degree sexual abuse and related counts for an incident that happened on October 23, 2017, in which he allegedly entered his ex-girlfriend’s home, cut her clothes with a knife and molested her.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Sarah Arena, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
