Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison for Mowing Down Business Owner with Stolen Truck - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 13, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison for
Mowing Down Business Owner with Stolen Truck
Defendant Stole a Truck Parked Outside Welding Company
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 26-year-old man has been sentenced to 15 years to life in prison for fatally driving over a business owner who attempted to stop him from driving off in a stolen truck in Greenwood, Brooklyn.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant not only ripped an innocent, hardworking man from his children and family, but also robbed the community and his employees of a beloved colleague and friend. Today’s sentence will not heal his loved ones’ wounds, but I hope it will provide them with a small measure of solace.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Joshua Colon, 26, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog to 15 years to life in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder last month.
The Acting District Attorney said that, on April 4, 2016, at approximately 9:00 a.m., the defendant jumped into the driver’s side of a flatbed truck parked in front of A&D Ironworks located at 305 24th Street in Greenwood. The defendant drove away with the truck, while the owner of A&D and the truck, Felize Dellegrazie, 63, chased after him in an SUV.
When Colon was stuck in traffic a few blocks away, Dellegrazie left his SUV and climbed on the side of the truck to demand that Colon turn off the engine and exit. During the confrontation, the defendant fought back and as he pushed Dellegrazie away the victim fell off the truck and was run over.
According to the evidence, the defendant drove over the victim’s head and neck killing him instantly. The defendant then abandoned the truck and was arrested later while trying to steal another vehicle.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Howard Jackson, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
