Brooklyn Man Indicted for Killing his Adoptive Mother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 8, 2017
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Killing his Adoptive Mother
Victim, 70, was Bound with Cords and Strangled inside her Canarsie Home
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 28-year-old man has been arraigned for murder and other charges for allegedly killing his 70-year-old adoptive mother, who was found bound and strangled inside her home in July.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The dastardly killing of a beloved senior citizen, allegedly by her own son, is truly shocking. We are committed to bringing this defendant to justice for this brutal and unspeakable crime.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Jayvon Mulzac, 28, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, first-degree robbery and first-degree unlawful imprisonment. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on February 14, 2018. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 18, 2017, Noreen Mulzac, 70, was found dead inside her home in Canarsie, Brooklyn, with her legs bound with electric cords. Her house was ransacked. The cause of death was determined to be ligature strangulation.
The investigation revealed that the defendant was at the victim’s house the day of the murder and her cell phone was later used by the defendant, who was arrested in August in Pittsfield, Massachusetts for misdemeanor assault. He was extradited back to Brooklyn yesterday.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Michelle Weber, Chief of the District Attorney’s Elder Abuse Unit, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Mark Pagliuco, Deputy Unit Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Chief of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
