Man who Raped and Robbed Sex Worker in Borough Park Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, July 24, 2017
Man who Raped and Robbed Sex Worker in Borough Park
Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison
Defendant and Second Man Duct Taped Victim, Who Was Then Raped and Robbed
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 30-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 20 years in prison for a violent attack in which he assaulted, raped and robbed a woman inside of an apartment. A second man has also been convicted in connection with the case.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant ruthlessly and viciously attacked a vulnerable woman, knowing that she would be an easy target. He has now been held accountable and will serve many years in prison.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Robert Hernandez, 30, of Brooklyn. He was convicted on June 12, 2017 of first-degree rape, first-degree robbery, first-degree burglary and second-degree assault following a jury trial. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Joanne Quinones to 20 years in prison and 20 years’ post-release supervision.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on July 13, 2015, at about 3:15 p.m., the defendant, Robert Hernandez, arrived at an apartment on 51st Street in Borough Park, for a scheduled appointment with a 52-year-old sex worker who he had seen previously. The victim let him into the apartment, and then Hernandez let in another man, his co-defendant, Joel Lopez, 29.
Hernandez then pushed the woman to the floor, and he and Lopez duct taped her hands and feet and mouth and removed her underwear. Hernandez threatened to set her on fire if she didn’t stop struggling. They moved her to the bed and Hernandez raped her while Lopez held her legs above her head.
The defendants then stole two cell phones, a laptop and cash from the victim and fled. The victim then called her escort service, which called police. Both defendants were arrested three months later, following an investigation.
Lopez pleaded guilty to first-degree burglary on April 19, 2017 and was sentenced to 12 years in prison on May 11, 2017.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Gwen Barnes and Assistant District Attorney Elizabeth Payne, both of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
