Two Brooklyn Men Sentenced to Prison for Possessing LSD, MDMA, Marijuana, Steroids, and Other Drugs - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, July 28, 2017
Two Brooklyn Men Sentenced to Prison for Possessing
LSD, MDMA, Marijuana, Steroids, and Other Drugs
Found after Massive Marijuana Shipment from California was Seized from U-Haul Truck;
One Defendant also Possessed a Firearm in Narcotics-Filled Warehouse
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two Brooklyn men were sentenced to five and two-and-a-half years in prison, respectively, for possessing a wide variety of drugs, including LSD, MDMA, marijuana, steroids and other illegal narcotics as well as cash and a firearm. A marijuana shipment was seized from a U-Haul truck in 2016 based on a tip from federal authorities, leading to the seizure.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants were in possession of large amounts of narcotics – many of them highly dangerous – that were intended to be distributed on Brooklyn streets. We remain vigilant against all drug dealers seeking to peddle poison on the streets of Brooklyn and today’s sentence is an appropriate penalty for this crime.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendants as Philip Feng, 37, of Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn, and Victor Bae, 36, of Greenpoint, Brooklyn. The defendants were sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Miller pursuant to guilty pleas entered last month. Feng was sentenced to five years in prison following his plea to second-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance, criminal possession of a firearm and first-degree criminal possession of marijuana. Bae was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison following his plea to third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and first degree criminal possession of marijuana. The defendants were ordered to forfeit a total of $152,736 in cash.
The Acting District Attorney said that on March 9, 2016, working on a tip from the Department of Homeland Security, a New York City Police Department detective observed the defendants load boxes into a U-Haul truck at a freight distribution center on Maspeth Avenue in Brooklyn. The officer followed the truck and initiated a traffic stop on a street corner in Greenpoint. Feng, who was driving the truck with a suspended license, stated that they were moving personal items from California to a warehouse at 234 Java Street, according to the investigation.
The officer recovered approximately 350 pounds of marijuana from the truck. A subsequent search warrant of the above-mentioned warehouse recovered a loaded .22-caliber revolver, 150 pounds of marijuana, packs of PCP, hundreds of vials of steroids, 188 grams of hallucinogenic mushrooms, about 200 vials of liquid THC, quantities of LSD, MDMA and methylone, liquid codeine, marijuana edibles, $152,736 in cash and drug paraphernalia. Personal items belonging to Bae and documents linking Feng to the warehouse were also recovered at the location.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jacob Uriel, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Grey Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
