Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life for Fatally Shooting Man Following Argument in East Flatbush Bodega - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 4, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life for Fatally Shooting Man
Following Argument in East Flatbush Bodega
Defendant Shot at Victim Eight Times in Broad Daylight
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 31-year-old Flatbush man has been sentenced to 23 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 42-year-old East Flatbush man following a dispute inside a bodega. The defendant fired eight times, striking the victim once in the back.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant fired off a barrage of bullets in broad daylight and only by sheer luck no one else was injured on that busy street. He has now been held accountable for senselessly taking a man’s life.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Herman Lancaster, 31, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 23 years to life in prison following his conviction last month on one count of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a non-jury trial.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 27, 2015, at approximately 2:40 p.m., the defendant shot and killed Kerwin Craigwell, 42, outside of the Adrian Deli & Grocery, located at 2073 Nostrand Avenue in East Flatbush, following a dispute. The shooting started inside the store and the unarmed victim was struck on the sidewalk after slipping on snow, the evidence showed. The defendant was apprehended minutes after the incident during a canvass of the area and identified by an eyewitness.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lewis E. Lieberman, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Joy Kieras, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau, Gray Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Homicide Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
