Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Indicted for Murder for Fatally Stabbing Girlfriend Multiple Times - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, July 26, 2017
Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Indicted for Murder for
Fatally Stabbing Girlfriend Multiple Times
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 53-year-old Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been charged with murder for fatally stabbing his girlfriend, whose body was found in their apartment with numerous stab wounds.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly committed a brutally violent act against his girlfriend of over seven years. He must now stand to face justice for this horrific crime.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Anthony Bradford, 53, of Gates Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Evelyn LaPorte on one count of second-degree murder and one count of fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on September 28, 2017. He faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on the evening of July 2, 2017, between 6:30 and 7:00 p.m., the defendant and the victim, his girlfriend of over seven years, returned home from a barbecue with the defendant’s family on Monroe Street, around the corner from the defendant’s and victim’s apartment. At approximately 11:30 p.m. that night, the defendant returned to his family’s home with blood on his clothes and with cuts on his hands. His family called for an ambulance.
According to the investigation, paramedics soon arrived and began treating the defendant’s wounds, during which, they learned that there was another person injured. At this point, the defendant’s sons directed the paramedics around the corner to the defendant’s building on Gates Avenue. There the paramedics found a trail of blood from the main door all the way up to the fourth floor apartment where the defendant and the victim lived. When the paramedics entered the apartment, they found the victim in the bedroom in a pool of blood with multiple stab wounds to her chest, shoulders and arms. She was taken to the hospital where she was pronounced dead.
The defendant was arrested a short time later in front of his family’s home on Monroe Street.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Willie Johnson, of the 79th Precinct Detective Squad and Detective Alexander Grandstaff, of the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
