Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man Multiple Times in East Flatbush - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, July 11, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for
Fatally Shooting Man Multiple Times in East Flatbush
Defendant Shot Victim in Lobby While Three Women and A Baby Were Present;
Apprehended Days Later in Possession of Loaded Gun
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 23-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 40 years to life in prison for killing a man in an East Flatbush building and for possessing a loaded firearm. The defendant shot the victim multiple times at close range in the lobby while three women and a baby in a stroller were also present.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant wanted to settle a score and shot the victim multiple times, disregarding the safety of innocent bystanders. He will now spend many years in prison for this senseless act of violence that took a man’s life.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Keron Lynch, 23, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deborah Dowling to 40 years to life in prison following his conviction last month of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on April 15, 2015, at approximately 10:40 a.m., at 139 East 53rd Street in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, the defendant shot Daniel Weir in the lobby of the building. Weir, 29, had been lured to the lobby of the residential building by a phone call. The defendant shot Weir with a .40 caliber gun, hitting him eight times in the torso and once in the right arm. He continued shooting while the victim was on the ground. At the time of the shooting, there were three women with a baby in a stroller in the lobby.
The victim was transported to Kings County Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
When interviewed by detectives, the defendant said the victim was responsible for sending two masked men to rob him at gunpoint two weeks before.
On April 26, 2015, police officers responded to a ShotSpotter alert near Howard Avenue and Saint John’s Place in East Flatbush, where they found the defendant who had been shot in the leg and foot. The defendant said he exchanged fire with another man, and dropped the gun under a parked car. Police recovered a .40 caliber gun under a car, and a ballistics report later matched it to the Weir shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Artur Jagielski, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
