East New York Man Sentenced to 40 Years in Prison For Fatally Shooting Man during Road Rage Argument - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 17, 2017
East New York Man Sentenced to 40 Years in Prison
For Fatally Shooting Man during Road Rage Argument
Defendant Fired Gun into Car with Passengers
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 25-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 40 years in prison for possessing an illegal gun and shooting into a car during a road rage argument in August 2013, killing one of the passengers.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant’s unprovoked and violent actions robbed a family of their loved one who had his whole future ahead of him and left his brother without his twin. This defendant will now spend many years in prison for senselessly taking another man’s life.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Steven Sidbury, 25, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court William Harrington to 40 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of first-degree manslaughter and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon earlier this month following a jury trial.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on August 18, 2013, at approximately 4:30 a.m., the defendant and his friends were jaywalking at the intersection of New Lots Avenue and Van Siclen Avenue in East New York. At that time, Dimitress Garcia, of East New York, attempted to drive through the intersection with his twin brother, and a family friend, Shimron Brooks, in the car. A verbal argument ensued between the parties in which the defendant’s friend threatened the passengers in the vehicle. Shortly thereafter, the defendant took out a gun and fired at least twice into the car, fatally striking Dominique “Domo” Garcia in the head. Dimitress drove his brother directly to Brookdale Hospital, where Dominique, 22, was pronounced dead, approximately 12 hours later.
The defendant was arrested on August 22, 2013, after members of the NYPD, on routine patrol, observed the defendant outside the Linden Houses in East New York. As the officers approached, the defendant fled and a firearm fell out of his pocket and onto the ground. The recovered firearm was compared to ballistics recovered from the homicide of Dominque Garcia and it was determined that the firearm was the same firearm used to kill Dominique Garcia.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sara R. Kurtzberg, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Chelsea Toder, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Blue Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
