Three Inmates Indicted for Assaulting Correction Officers - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 22, 2017
Three Inmates Indicted for Assaulting Correction Officers
Punched and Dragged an Officer, Pepper Sprayed Two of his Colleagues
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that three inmates have been indicted for allegedly attacking a New York City correction officer inside the Brooklyn Detention Center, punching and dragging him down a flight of stairs. One of the defendants is additionally charged for allegedly spraying two other correction officers with pepper spray.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Correction officers work under some of the most difficult and dangerous conditions, as this unprovoked and infuriating alleged assault demonstrates. They must be protected and those who attack them should expect severe consequences. We will do everything in our power to vigorously prosecute those who put our dedicated correction officers in danger.”
Correction Officers’ Benevolent Association President Elias Husamudeen said, “For too long, inmates who assault New York City Correction Officers have remained immune from prosecution for their crimes committed behind bars. The COBA has vigorously urged the District Attorneys to act swiftly to ensure that the frequent attacks on our members do not go unpunished. That is why we applaud Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and his team of Assistant District Attorneys for indicting the three inmates who brutally assaulted three correction officers at the Brooklyn Detention Center several weeks ago. With today’s indictments, the Brooklyn DA’s Office has sent a very clear message to every inmate in our jail system that they will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law if they assault a New York City Correction Officer.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendants as Koron Bailey, 30, Johnny Williams, 23, and Gilbert Marcano, 33. Bailey and Marcano were arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Foley on an indictment in which they are variously charged with second-degree assault, second-degree attempted assault, second-degree obstructing governmental administration and related counts. Williams will be arraigned at a later date. The defendants face a maximum sentence of seven years in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, the incident took place on April 19, 2017, at about 12:10 p.m. inside the Brooklyn Detention Center, located on 275 Atlantic Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn. It is alleged that Bailey repeatedly punched a correction officer in the face and body. Marcano then held the officer’s arms as Bailey continued to punch him. Bailey proceeded to drag the victim down metal stairs with Williams walking behind him, according to the investigation.
Another correction officer responded and assisted his colleague. He observed that Williams was holding pepper spray, a knife and keys that fell from the officer’s duty belt during the assault. Williams refused to hand over the pepper spray and, after a third officer came to help, that defendant allegedly sprayed both officers in the eyes with the pepper spray, according to the evidence.
At the time of the incident, the defendants were jailed pending the resolution of cases they have been charged with: Bailey for a murder in Manhattan, Williams for a Brooklyn robbery and Marcano for criminal contempt in the Bronx.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
