Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications For Winter and Spring High School Internships - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, November 21, 2017
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications
For Winter and Spring High School Internships
Internship Program to Run in Mid-Winter and Spring Cycles; Program Provides
Unique Learning Experience in Public Service and Law
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of a competitive mid-winter and spring internship program for current high school juniors and seniors who live and attend school in Brooklyn. Students with a strong interest in criminal justice or the public interest sector and who meet the requisite eligibility criteria are encouraged to apply and participate in one of two intensive one-week programs.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This internship program will offer hands-on experience into how criminal cases develop, everything from the steps taken to investigate and build a case, to how cases are presented in court. Interns accepted into the program will not only learn about the criminal justice system and legal careers, but will also develop team-building and leadership skills that will enhance their professional development.”
Selected students will be assigned to a unit within the DA’s office and will support the work of Assistant District Attorneys and other members of the DA’s staff. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis using the Internet, news articles and legal periodicals; assist attorneys on pretrial matters; work on case preparation, discovery, file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in trial zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
The program is open to qualifying juniors and seniors who must be able to commit to the entire duration of either of two internship cycles. Cycle 1 will run from February 20, 2018 to February 23, 2018; Cycle 2 will run from April 2, 2018 to April 6, 2018. Hours are 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day.
This is an unpaid internship, but students will receive a MetroCard to assist with transportation. Applicants are required to supply their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume, one letter of recommendation from either a teacher, coach, or mentor and must submit a 300 word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and what impact they think it will have on their future personal and academic endeavors.
To apply, please visit:
http://brooklynda.org/internships/
beginning November 27, 2017. Only the recommendation letter should be emailed to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
in pdf format, with the subject line: Recommendation Letter (Applicant’s First and Last Name). All application materials must be received no later than Friday, December 22, 2017.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
