Sheepshead Bay Man Indicted for Fatally Shooting Wife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 15, 2017
Sheepshead Bay Man Indicted for Fatally Shooting Wife
Assaulted Victim’s Cousin as She Tried to Protect Her; Defendant Fled to Delaware
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 30-year-old man from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with the murder of his 30-year-old wife, whom he allegedly assaulted before shooting her in the head last month. The defendant allegedly admitted to committing the murder before fleeing to Delaware.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is charged with ruthlessly shooting to death an innocent and beloved woman who was out celebrating with her family. I am determined to hold him accountable for this cold-blooded murder.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Gabino Genao, 30, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew D’Emic on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, first-degree reckless endangerment and third-degree assault. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on August 2, 2017. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 26, 2017 at about 11:15 p.m., in front of 2714 West 36th Street in Seagate, Brooklyn, the defendant shot his wife, Iveliss Alvarado, multiple times in the head. The couple was not living together at the time and the victim was celebrating at a family reunion before she was fatally shot.
A cousin of the victim witnessed the defendant pummeling her cousin, intervened in an attempt to protect her and suffered bruises when the defendant allegedly punched her as well. The cousin fled as the defendant opened fire. After the shooting, the defendant was heard saying, “I killed her,” according to the investigation. He was apprehended in Delaware on June 2, 2017 and extradited to Brooklyn today.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andres Palacio of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Richa Bhasin, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Domestic Violence Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
