Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years in Prison after Shooting a Man at Close Range during Robbery in Coney Island - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 30, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years in Prison after Shooting a Man at Close Range during Robbery in Coney Island
Defendant Stole Victim’s Gold Chain after Shooting Him
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 22-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 22 years in prison for assault and robbery stemming from a June 2015 attack at a New York City Housing Authority development in Coney Island.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant shot an innocent man, then callously removed a gold chain from his neck after he was wounded. Violent acts like this will not be tolerated in Brooklyn. The defendant will now spend two decades in prison for this senseless crime.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Nyquan English, 22, of Coney Island, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 22 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his conviction earlier this month on one count of first-degree assault and one count of first-degree robbery after a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Miriam Cyrulnik.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on June 25, 2015, at approximately 3:00 p.m. inside of the NYCHA’s Coney Island Houses at 3028 West 29th Street, the defendant demanded a gold chain – with a religious pendant of a woman holding a sword – from a resident of the building. When the victim, a 39-year-old man, refused, the defendant physically struggled with him and eventually fired a small black revolver at close range striking him in the torso. After shooting him, the defendant removed the gold chain from the victim and left the scene.
The victim was taken to New York University’s Lutheran Medical Center in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, and underwent surgery for a gunshot wound to the chest.
On September 15, 2015, the defendant was arrested after being spotted by officers from the Brooklyn North Gang Unit patrolling in an unmarked police car on Lincoln Place and Troy Avenue in East New York. The officers saw the defendant drop a black object to the ground, and then change directions after spotting the unmarked police car. The arresting officers recovered a small black revolver from the spot where the defendant dropped the object.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Brian Wagner, and Assistant District Attorney Michael Jaffe, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Green Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
