Queens Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Teen during Pizzeria Brawl in Brooklyn - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 28, 2017
Queens Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing
Teen during Pizzeria Brawl in Brooklyn
Defendant Stabbed Victim in the Heart With a Knife
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 23-year-old Queens man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison after pleading guilty to first-degree manslaughter in the November 2014 fatal stabbing of a teenager at a Domino’s Pizza restaurant in East New York.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Through his violent actions, this defendant didn’t only kill a teenager, but also destroyed the hopes and dreams his family had for their loved one. This was a senseless, violent and deadly assault, for which the defendant will now spend many years in prison.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Juan Rosa, 23, of Jamaica, Queens. He was sentenced today to 20 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on July 18, 2017. His co-defendant, Michael Gibbs, 28, pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on June 30, 2017. Gibbs was sentenced to 13 years in prison on July 14, 2017.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on November 11, 2014, at approximately 9:40 p.m., the defendant and four men entered the Domino’s Pizza restaurant located at 2196 Pitkin Avenue in East New York. Rosa, Gibbs, and three others kicked and punched 18-year-old Dashawn Cameron, who was inside the pizzeria. As the men beat Cameron, Rosa stabbed the victim with a knife.
Rosa was seen on surveillance video with a knife, according to the investigation, and later admitted to stabbing Cameron. Cameron died from his injuries at Brookdale University Hospital. Two of the men have yet to be apprehended. A third defendant, Rakiem Smith, 24, pleaded guilty to assault and perjury, and was sentenced to one year in jail.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Emily Dean, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
