Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez Announces Promotions to Key Leadership Positions - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 3, 2017
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez
Announces Promotions to Key Leadership Positions
Three Prosecutors, including Newly-Hired former Defense Attorney, to
Lead Trial Bureaus; New Homicide Chief Named
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced a series of promotions to important leadership positions in the District Attorney’s Office. Those include naming Timothy Gough as the new Homicide Bureau Chief, hiring of Danielle Eaddy, a distinguished defense attorney and former Assistant District Attorney, to lead one of the Trial Bureaus and promoting two veteran prosecutors – Kin Ng and Robert Walsh – to head two other Trial Bureaus.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The promotions and appointment of these extremely accomplished prosecutors will make our Office even better and stronger. They are a highly-qualified and uniquely diverse group of attorneys who have a long track record of supervisory experience and courtroom expertise. Together with the rest of our staff, they will ensure that the DA’s Office continues to work professionally and efficiently and remains committed in its pursuit of justice and fairness for the people of Brooklyn.”
The Acting District Attorney said that ADA Gough will replace current Homicide Bureau Chief Kenneth Taub, who is retiring next month after 36 years of extraordinary public service at the Brooklyn DA’s Office, 28 of those in the Homicide Bureau. ADA Gough was most recently the Bureau Chief of the Grey Zone Trial Bureau, one of the five Trial Bureaus in the Office that together handle the bulk of felony and misdemeanor cases in the borough. Since joining the DA’s Office in 1997, he has tried about 100 cases to verdict, most of them homicide cases. ADA Gough started his career in 1990 at the Manhattan DA’s Office, where he was a trial and appellate prosecutor.
ADA Eaddy will replace ADA Gough as the Grey Zone Bureau Chief. She joined the Office in 1994 and, during a 12-year tenure, held numerous managerial positions, including Grey Zone Bureau Chief. She left in 2006 to launch a criminal defense and civil rights practice, litigating state and federal cases that included many sensitive and high-profile trials. A Fordham University School of Law graduate and Bedford-Stuyvesant resident, ADA Eaddy was recently hired to return to the Office where she started her legal career.
In addition, ADA Kin Ng has been promoted to Bureau Chief of the Red Zone Trial Bureau. A Brooklyn prosecutor since 1991, he was most recently the Chief of the Immigrant Fraud Unit. Prior to that, he held a variety of positions in Supreme and Criminal Court and served as Director of Training for the Office. ADA Ng has regularly lectured about public service, diversity and leadership in government and worked with local and foreign media, particularly Asian media, to raise awareness in immigrant communities regarding various criminal justice issues. He is replacing former Bureau Chief Joseph Alexis, who was promoted in December 2016 to Chief of the Trial Division.
Furthermore, ADA Robert Walsh has been promoted to Bureau Chief of the Blue Zone Trial Bureau, replacing ADA Frances Weiner, who is becoming Director of Legal Training. She was previously Deputy Bureau Chief of the Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau among other supervisory positions. ADA Walsh, a prosecutor since 1991, has handled a wide variety of cases, included narcotics trafficking, assaults on police officers and homicides, displaying excellent courtroom skills. He also held a number of managerial positions, including supervising firearm prosecutions. ADA Walsh was most recently the Felony Deputy Bureau Chief at the Blue Zone Trial Bureau.
Numerous other Assistant District Attorneys have been promoted to Deputy Chiefs and other supervisory positions, including Grace Jeannie Lopez to Deputy Bureau Chief of the Red Hook Community Justice Center Bureau; Nada Abdelhadi to Deputy Bureau Chief of the Early Case Assessment Bureau; Kevin C. Aulbach to Deputy Chief of the Crime Strategy Unit; and José Interiano to Deputy Chief of the Immigrant Fraud Unit.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
