Bushwick Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison For Shooting a Teenager in Broad Daylight - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 6, 2017
Bushwick Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison
For Shooting a Teenager in Broad Daylight
Opened Fire across the Street from a Playground in Sheepshead Bay
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 21-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 10 years in prison for shooting a 16-year-old teen in broad daylight, leaving him with wounds to the ankle and buttocks. The incident happened during a summer afternoon across the street from a playground.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This callous and senseless shooting at a time when children were playing is infuriating. We will continue to vigorously prosecute all instances of gun violence in Brooklyn and seek lengthy prison terms against anyone who fires a weapon on our streets.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Joseph Ackwood, 21, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram to 10 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea on April 6, 2017 to second-degree attempted murder.
The Acting District Attorney said that on July 25, 2016, at about 4 p.m., the 16-year-old victim was standing with friends outside a bodega located at 2964 Avenue X in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. A playground is situated across the street from that location. The defendant approached on a bicycle, according to the investigation, exchanged words with the victim, then pulled out a .40 caliber firearm from his waistband, chased the victim into the street and fired multiple times.
The victim was struck in the ankle and buttocks. He was hospitalized for over a week. Surveillance footage from the bodega depicted the incident and showed passersby running away from the scene once the shooting started. The defendant, a member of the Young Stackers street gang, was apprehended a month later.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sasha Pemberton of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Green Zone under the supervision of David Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
