Teen Indicted for Attempted Murder for Seriously Injuring Police Officer by Intentionally Dragging Him with a Vehicle - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 16, 2017
Teen Indicted for Attempted Murder for Seriously Injuring
Police Officer by Intentionally Dragging Him with a Vehicle
Allegedly Sped off in Stolen Car as NYPD Officer Hung on
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 15-year-old Brooklyn teenager has been indicted for attempted murder and assault in connection with an incident that left a New York City Police Officer with life threatening injuries. The defendant allegedly sped away in a stolen car after the officer approached and then weaved the vehicle to cause the officer, who was attempting to hang on, to be thrown off and suffer severe head trauma.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant in this case allegedly tried to escape during a lawful stop and, in doing so, seriously injured a dedicated police officer. This appalling and senseless criminal behavior will be prosecuted to the fullest extent because we simply won’t allow anyone to put our police officers in harm’s way. My thoughts and prayers are with Officer Veve and his family.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Justin Murrell, 15, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dineen Riviezzo on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder and first-degree assault. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on August 22, 2017. He faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that on June 3, 2016, officers from the 67th Precinct responded to the corner of Tilden Avenue and East 53rd Street in East Flatbush to investigate a report of shots fired. Officer Dalsh Veve approached a black Honda Civic that was driven by the defendant and had three other passengers, according to the investigation.
When Officer Veve attempted to stop the vehicle, the defendant fled with the officer holding onto the car. The evidence shows that the defendant drove up to 56 mph while weaving through the streets. The Officer was able to discharge his weapon, striking the defendant in the jaw, and was then flung from the vehicle. He suffered severe neurological injuries and remains in a coma.
The defendant crashed the car and he and the three occupants of the Honda – which had been stolen – fled on foot, the investigation found. Murrell walked about 15 blocks to Kings County Hospital, but saw several police cars outside so he took an Uber to Brookdale Hospital and was admitted.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Melissa Carvajal, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
