Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years in Prison for Shooting Rampage That Left Three People Seriously Wounded - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, April 3, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years in Prison for Shooting Rampage
That Left Three People Seriously Wounded
Defendant Opened Fire on Uniformed Police Officers and Bystanders
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 33-year-old man was sentenced to 23 years in prison for wounding three people after he opened fire in a Prospect-Lefferts Gardens street when uniformed police officers approached him.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant took aim at two uniformed police officers and opened fire in a crowded Brooklyn street, seriously wounding three innocent people and putting these brave officers and countless others at risk. It is a miracle that no one was killed. He deserves to spend time behind bars for his brazen criminal actions.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Kevon Brown, 33, of Prospect-Lefferts Garden, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Judge Martin Murphy to 23 years in state prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea on March 13, 2017 to two counts of second-degree attempted murder and one count of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 2, 2013 at approximately 3:20 p.m., the defendant pulled out a firearm in the Lenox Road between Flatbush and Bedford Avenues and opened fire on two uniformed New York City Police Department officers as they approached him. As the officers took cover behind a car, the defendant turned to two innocent bystanders, ages 25 and 42, and fired multiple shots in their direction. The 25-year-old victim was struck in the torso and the 42-year-old victim was shot in the chest and leg. Both victims survived their injuries.
The defendant then ran away from the scene, firing multiple shots in the crowded street. A bullet grazed the neck of a third victim, 24 years of age, who also survived the injury. The defendant was apprehended the following day inside a neighborhood laundromat.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Brian Wagner, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Julie DeGenaro, Deputy Bureau Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
