Twin Brothers from Mill Basin Indicted in Connection with The Killing and Dumping of their Roommate - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 30, 2017
Twin Brothers from Mill Basin Indicted in Connection with
The Killing and Dumping of their Roommate
Weighed Body Down with Construction Materials and Threw it in Jamaica Bay;
Apprehended in Indiana Following a High Speed Chase
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that twin brothers from Brooklyn have been variously charged with murder and hindering prosecution for allegedly killing their roommate, then wrapping the body with tarp, weighing it down with construction materials and dumping it into a Jamaica Bay inlet.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This brutal murder and the calculated disposal of the body are truly disturbing. Thanks to outstanding investigatory work, we have been able to charge the alleged perpetrators and bring them back to Brooklyn. We will now seek to hold them responsible for what they did.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendants as Louis and Vincent Iacono, both 36, from Mill Basin, Brooklyn. They were arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog on an indictment in which Louis Iacono is charged with second-degree murder, Vincent Iacono is charged with first-degree hindering prosecution and both are charged with tampering with physical evidence. Louis Iacono was remanded without bail and Vincent Iacono was held on $250,000 bail. Both were ordered to return to court on February 9, 2018. Louis Iacono faces up to 25 years to life in prison and Vincent Iacono faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, sometime between August 30 and August 31, 2017, Louis Iacono fatally struck 35-year-old Carmine Carini in the head with a hammer inside a home they shared on East 64th Street in Mill Basin, Brooklyn.
On September 2, 2017 the victim’s body was recovered from the waters of Mill Basin inlet, off Jamaica Bay. The victim suffered massive head trauma, including skull and jaw fractures. The body was wrapped in blue tarp and weighed down with a cinder block and a bucket filled with construction materials, the investigation found. Surveillance videos captured the defendants carry the materials into their apartment and later dumping the body.
A short time after the body was discovered, the defendants were apprehended in Henry County Indiana. They were stopped by a Sheriff Deputy for tailgating, and then took off, leading police on a high speed chase for approximately 12 miles until they were caught at a Walmart store. Three hammers were recovered from the trunk of their car and tested positive for blood, the investigation found. They had been held in Indiana on local charges until being extradited to Brooklyn.
The District Attorney thanked the Henry County Sheriff’s Office for their assistance with the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Joseph Fortunato of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
