Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office is Accepting Applications For Summer High School Internships - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 21, 2017
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office is Accepting Applications
For Summer High School Internships
Joint Partnership with the United Federation of Teachers; Program Offers Unique Exposure
To the Inner Workings of the Criminal Justice System
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew, today announced the open application period for a summer internship program for high school students who live or attend school in the borough. Students with an interest in criminal justice or public service will participate in the comprehensive five-week program.
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We are excited to host this hands-on and interactive internship program offering high school students the chance to work directly with Assistant District Attorneys and gain valuable real world experiences. Participating students will receive an insider’s view of the criminal justice system and the chance to be mentored in a professional workplace setting. We are proud to partner with the United Federation of Teachers to provide this opportunity for Brooklyn students.”
President Mulgrew said, “Internships can make a real difference in students’ lives, giving them a grounding in the workplace and a better understanding of what they will need—including further education—to create a career for themselves.”
Selected students will be assigned to units within the DA’s office to support the work of Assistant District Attorneys and other members of the DA’s staff. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis using the Internet, news articles and legal periodicals; assist attorneys on pretrial matters; work on case preparation, discovery, file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in trial zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
The program is open to qualifying sophomores, juniors and rising seniors who must be able to commit to the entire duration of the program. It will run from July 10, 2017 to August 11, 2017, Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and on Friday from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
Students will receive a $150 weekly stipend and commuting costs. Applicants are required to supply their most recent school transcripts, a one-page resume, two letters of recommendation and evaluation forms from either a teacher, coach or mentor, and must submit a 300 word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s office and what impact they think it will have on their future personal and professional endeavors.
To apply, please visit
www.brooklynda.org/internships
, no later than May 5, 2017.
For further information, please contact us at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
