Brooklyn Teenager Indicted for Shooting Man and Wounding Two-Year-Old Baby outside Subway Station - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 6, 2017
Brooklyn Teenager Indicted for Shooting Man and Wounding
Two-Year-Old Baby outside Subway Station
Bullet Struck Intended Victim in Thigh and Grazed Toddler’s Knee
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 19-year-old Brooklyn teenager has been indicted for attempted murder and assault for allegedly shooting a man outside a subway station in Brownsville, Brooklyn. The bullet went through the victim’s leg and grazed a baby, who was sitting in a stroller nearby.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant had the audacity to allegedly open fire during rush hour in the middle of a busy street. As is the case all too often, he also struck an innocent bystander—a young baby who thankfully survived. We will never accept such cases of gun violence in Brooklyn and will prosecute them vigorously.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Lyemel Summerville, 19, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Martin Murphy on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and related counts. The defendant was ordered held on $50,000 bond or $25,000 bail and to return to court on November 20, 2017. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that on August 19, 2017, at about 5:15 p.m., outside a subway station near the corner of Sutter Avenue and Junius Street in Brownsville, the defendant was arguing with a 20-year-old man, according to the investigation.
The defendant then allegedly fired at least one shot, striking the victim in the right thigh, according to the investigation. The bullet went through the victim’s leg and grazed the knee of a 2-year-old baby who was sitting in a baby stroller that was being pushed by his grandfather. A .25-caliber shell casing was recovered from outside the station.
The older victim was hospitalized for several days for the gunshot wound. The baby was taken to a hospital, where he was treated and released. The defendant’s photo was distributed to the media and he was arrested on September 2, 2017.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Myco of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Orange Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Janet Gleeson, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
