Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison For Shooting Death of Canarsie Man - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison
For Shooting Death of Canarsie Man
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 28-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for fatally shooting a man outside a house in Canarsie where the defendant’s girlfriend was residing.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant senselessly shot and killed a young man who had his whole life ahead of him. He has now been held accountable and will spend many years in prison for his actions.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Brian Williams, 28, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglass. The defendant was convicted of first-degree manslaughter and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial in August.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on February 13, 2016, at approximately 5:45 p.m., the defendant was visiting his ex-girlfriend at a house on East 93rd Street in Canarsie, Brooklyn. He then got into an argument with Javane Laurent, 24, who was the son of the homeowner. Laurent was enraged that Williams had brought a gun to his house. Laurent grabbed a machete from his room and used it to guide the defendant out of the house. Once outside, the defendant shot Laurent multiple times in the back. He was taken to Brookdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jamie Begley, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Justin Marrus, of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau Orange Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
