East Flatbush Man Indicted for Murder and Dismemberment of Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, February 27, 2017
East Flatbush Man Indicted for Murder and Dismemberment of Girlfriend
Victim’s Remains Found Dumped in the Bronx and in the Defendant’s Freezer
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 40-year-old man has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with the murder and dismemberment of his girlfriend, whose remains were found in the defendant’s apartment and at a waste station in the Bronx.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “While we cannot erase the cruelty of Leondra Foster’s death, we can commit to seeking swift and certain justice, both for her heartbroken family and her alleged killer. Today’s indictment, with its disturbing allegations, is the next step toward fulfilling that promise.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Somorie Moses, 40, of 185 Erasmus Street in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew D’Emic on one count of second-degree murder and one count of concealment of a human corpse and ordered held without bail. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, parts of a woman’s dismembered remains were discovered at a waste station at 287 Halleck Street in the Bronx, at approximately 4:45 a.m., on January 17, 2017. The investigation led New York City Police Department detectives to the defendant and they attempted to apprehend him at his Brooklyn residence on January 20, 2017. The defendant tried to flee but was unsuccessful.
Additional human remains, including the head of the victim, were recovered from a freezer in the defendant’s residence during the execution of a search warrant. The Medical Examiner’s Office determined that all of the remains were those of the defendant’s girlfriend, Leondra Foster, 32, who also resided at 185 Erasmus Street. The Medical Examiner determined cause of death as blunt force trauma to the head.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Adam Kreitzberg, of the 41st Precinct Detective Squad, and Detective Christopher Skulsky, of the Bronx Homicide Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
