Bronx Sex Offender Sentenced to 65 Years to Life for Raping Senior Citizen inside her Brownsville Apartment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 25, 2017
Bronx Sex Offender Sentenced to 65 Years to Life for
Raping Senior Citizen inside her Brownsville Apartment
Helped Victim Carry Plant to Her Home, Then Sexually Assaulted Her
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 31-year-old Bronx man has been sentenced to 65 years to life in prison following his conviction on charges of predatory sexual assault and burglary for raping a 64-year-old woman inside her apartment in Brownsville, Brooklyn.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is a repeat sexual offender who is clearly a danger to society. This depraved, brutal and calculated attack on a senior citizen in the sanctity of her home justifies the lengthy sentence he received today.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Darrell Kinard, 31, of Claremont Village in the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 65 years to life in prison following his conviction on March 13, 2017 of two counts of predatory sexual assault and one count of second-degree burglary as a sexually motivated felony after a jury trial. The defendant has been deemed a predatory felon, based on a prior conviction for which he was designated a level-3 sex offender, and faced a mandatory life sentence.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on March 26, 2015, at approximately 4 p.m., the defendant was in the lobby of the victim’s building in Brownsville, Brooklyn. He helped the 64-year-old victim carry a plant to her apartment. Once inside, the defendant raped the woman in the living room and again in the bedroom. When the victim locked herself in the bathroom, he punched the door and broke it open.
The defendant then forced the victim to bathe and to wash the sheets and her clothing. After he left, the victim, who suffered a bruised and swollen lip, went to the hospital, where a sexual assault evidence collection kit was performed. A DNA sample matched the defendant and he was apprehended in September 2015.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Deborah Cohen and Assistant District Attorney Elizabeth Payne, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
