Kensington Man Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison For Fatally Stabbing Landlord with Sword - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 28, 2017
Kensington Man Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison
For Fatally Stabbing Landlord with Sword
Apprehended in Airport before Boarding Flight to his Native Bangladesh
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 31-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 25 years in prison for fatally stabbing his landlord with a samurai sword during a dispute inside a basement he was leasing from the victim.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant caused a tragic and completely senseless death, taking the life of a beloved businessman and a father of three. He will now serve a very long prison sentence for his brutal and violent conduct.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Rasel Siddiquee, 31 of Kensington, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog to 25 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea earlier this month to first-degree manslaughter.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on January 6, 2014 the defendant was inside a basement apartment at 546 McDonald Avenue in Kensington, which he was renting from the victim, Mahiuddin Mahmud.
The defendant, who was holding a sword, became angry at the victim over a pedicab license that was received in the mail. He struck the victim with the sword multiple times and continued to strike him in the throat after he fell to the ground, the evidence showed.
The defendant was apprehended on January 8, 2014 in Kennedy Airport after using his credit card to buy a flight ticket to Bangladesh.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Melissa Carvajal, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
