East New York Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Fatally Bludgeoning Victim with TV Set - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 14, 2017
East New York Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for
Fatally Bludgeoning Victim with TV Set
Also used Crutch to Strike Victim inside Brownsville Apartment;
Identified via Blood-Stained Fingerprint
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 31-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 18 years in state prison for repeatedly striking a 26-year-old man with a television set and a crutch inside the victim’s Brownsville apartment, causing his death.
Acting District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant, who attacked the victim in his own home and left him to die, deserves to spend many years in prison for taking a young man’s life.”
The Acting District Attorney identified the defendant as Delvin Garcia, 31, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Neil Firetog to 18 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter on January 30, 2016.
The Acting District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on the afternoon of September 2, 2014, Anthony Freeman, 26, was found by his girlfriend lying dead inside their apartment on Saint Marks Avenue in Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was bludgeoned with a 13” box TV set and one of his own crutches, which he was using at the time; both blood-splattered items were found near the victim’s body. The cause of death was blunt force trauma to the head.
A fingerprint on the blood-stained television matched the defendant. The victim’s girlfriend identified the defendant as a person she saw riding a bike outside just before she left the apartment about two hours prior to discovering the body.
The defendant was arrested on February 17, 2015 and subsequently admitted to fighting with the defendant, hitting him with a crutch and leaving him unconscious.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Emily Dean of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Taub, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
