East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 20 Years in State Prison For Stabbing Death of Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 28, 2018
East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 20 Years in State Prison
For Stabbing Death of Girlfriend
Victim was Stabbed Multiple Times
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East Flatbush man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for the 2015 stabbing death of his girlfriend. He pleaded guilty to one count of first-degree manslaughter earlier this month.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant brutally stabbed and tied up his girlfriend, leaving her to die. He has now accepted responsibility for his despicable actions. We will not tolerate domestic violence and intimate partner abuse in Brooklyn, and will continue to prosecute such cases vigorously.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Daniel Romain, 35, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea to one count of first-degree manslaughter earlier this month. The defendant was sentenced to an additional 10 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision, to run concurrently, following his guilty plea earlier this month to first-degree attempted assault.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on December 5, 2015 at about 4:30 p.m., at 649 East 95th Street in East Flatbush, the police arrived and found the defendant with blood on his shirt and pants and wearing plastic grocery bags on his hands, which were also bloody.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, the police had been called to the apartment by the defendant’s stepfather, who had called 911. The police found the defendant’s girlfriend, Tisa Kelly, 46, of Kissimmee, Florida, stabbed to death in the bathtub, naked and tied with bedsheets.
The defendant was arrested after attempting to flee out the back door of the apartment.
In a separate case, the defendant pleaded guilty earlier this month in connection to an April 25, 2015 incident in which he fired a gun while attempting to gain entry to a birthday party in East New York to which he was not invited, grazing the head of an individual at the party.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
