East New York Man Pleads Guilty to Promoting Prostitution of Two 14-Year-Old Girls - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 29, 2018
East New York Man Pleads Guilty to Promoting Prostitution
Of Two 14-Year-Old Girls
Defendant to be Sentenced to 8 to 16 Years in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East New York man has pleaded guilty to two counts of promoting prostitution for offering two 14-year-old girls to men who paid to have sex with them.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “With today’s guilty plea, this defendant admits taking advantage of two vulnerable teenagers and will now spend many years in prison. In Brooklyn, it is our duty to protect all child victims from this type of predatory behavior.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Anthony Young, a.k.a., Royalty, 30, of East New York, Brooklyn. He pleaded guilty today to two counts of first-degree promoting prostitution before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. He will be sentenced on June 20, 2018, at which time the judge indicated he would sentence him to an indeterminate term of eight to 16 years in prison. He will be required to register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between March and August of 2016, Young prostituted two 14-year-old girls in Brooklyn, Hempstead, Huntington, and Westbury, New York; and Elizabeth, New Jersey, posting photos of them alongside advertisements for escort services.
The defendant rented several rooms at the Howard Johnson hotel on Rockaway Avenue in Brownsville, Brooklyn, as well as at other locations. Men came to the locations and paid to have sex with the girls. Furthermore, according to the investigation, Young drove the underage girls to other locations in Brooklyn, as well as Long Island and New Jersey to have sex with men for money. Young was physically violent towards both victims and the minor victims had to turn over their earnings to the defendant.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective David Mills, Detective James Rufle and Detective Adrian Campos of the Human Trafficking Team, Vice Enforcement Division, under the supervision of Lieutenant Christopher Sharpe and Captain Thomas Milano, and the overall supervision of Inspector James Klein. Police Officer Tony Cuoco of the NYPD’s 75th Precinct assisted in the investigation.
Senior Intelligence Analyst Brooke Middleton of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit assisted in the investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Sergeant Patricia Gusmano, of the Special Victims Unit at the Union County, New Jersey Prosecutor’s Office for her assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Laura Edidin, Unit Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
