East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 24 Years to Life in Prison for Strangulation Death of His Former Girlfriend, Who Had Order of Protection Against Him - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 12, 2018
East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 24 Years to Life in Prison for Strangulation
Death of His Former Girlfriend, Who Had Order of Protection Against Him
Defendant Showed up at Victim’s Workplace; Incident Captured on Surveillance Video
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 34-year-old man has been sentenced to 24 years to life in prison for the strangulation death of his former girlfriend, 25-year-old Deneisha Smith.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Domestic violence remains the cause of too many homicides and my Office is committed to obtaining justice for every victim and to work on prevention by identifying and prosecuting all incidents of intimate partner abuse. In this case, the defendant brutally killed a completely innocent woman and will now spend many years in prison for this heinous act.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Rolanso Lexune, 34, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser to 24 years to life in prison following his conviction last month of second-degree murder after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on October 1, 2016, at approximately 9:30 a.m., the defendant showed up at Bedford Technology, the workplace of Deneisha Smith, his former girlfriend, located at 2184 Bedford Avenue, in Flatbush. The victim buzzed the defendant into the store and the two are seen interacting when the defendant suddenly uses force to push the victim into a backroom out of public view, according to surveillance video. Further video recovered from the backroom shows the defendant arguing with the victim, looking at her cell phone, assaulting the victim, and ultimately strangling her with his hands before leaving the scene.
The victim’s body was discovered three hours later by a co-worker and she was pronounced dead at the scene by medical personnel. The defendant was arrested at his East Flatbush apartment, where he lived with his wife and children, after being identified on the videotape surveillance. The victim had a full order of protection against the defendant stemming from an earlier incident in which he struck the victim and stole her cell phone.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Vincent Bocchetti, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Sydelle Exantus, also of the DV Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michele Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
