Upstate Man Sentenced to 10 Years in State Prison For Sexually Assaulting Woman in East New York Stairwell - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, November 13, 2018
Upstate Man Sentenced to 10 Years in State Prison
For Sexually Assaulting Woman in East New York Stairwell
Grabbed Victim from Behind; Identified Via a DNA Match
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 32-year-old man from Schenectady, NY, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting a woman after he grabbed her from behind in a stairwell of an East New York apartment building.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Thanks to DNA science this defendant has been held accountable for assaulting a defenseless woman. In Brooklyn, we will continue to vigorously prosecute sexual predators and seek justice for victims.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Brandon Majette, 32, of Schenectady, New York. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Evelyn LaPorte to 10 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree criminal sexual act in May.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 3, 2016, at about 6:30 a.m., the 26-year-old victim was walking up the stairs of a relative’s apartment building on Loring Street in East New York. The defendant grabbed her from behind, pushed her down to the floor and sexually assaulted her.
The defendant then took a picture of the victim’s identification card, stole $100 from her wallet and fled, the evidence showed. She ran to her relative’s home and 911 was immediately called. Semen from the victim’s dress later came back as a match to the defendant and he was apprehended in Troy, N.Y., on February 2, 2017.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Nasar, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
