Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Shooting a Man During Alleged Revenge Killing in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 18, 2018
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Shooting a Man During Alleged Revenge Killing in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 34-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 18 years in prison for fatally shooting a man in 2015 during an alleged revenge killing in a Bedford-Stuyvesant courtyard in broad daylight.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant’s brazen actions ended a man’s life and simultaneously put others in danger. I am committed to bringing dangerous individuals to justice and keeping Brooklyn safe for all of our residents.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tyshon Knight, 34, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 18 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of first-degree manslaughter and four counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a bench trial in February.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 27, 2015, at approximately 3:30 p.m., the defendant exited a car, walked towards the victim and started shooting. The victim, Jamaal Anderson, 31, was sitting in a courtyard at 1615 Fulton Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant. As the defendant and his co-defendant, Isaac Bryant, began shooting, Anderson started running away but was shot in the back and collapsed. The defendants fired 13 gunshots into a courtyard full of people, then ran back to the car and drove off.
The victim was taken to Interfaith Medical Hospital where he was pronounced dead due to the gunshot wound to his back.
The shooting was allegedly in retaliation for Knight’s brother being shot, according to testimony during the Bryant murder trial. Bryant was sentenced to 23 years to life in prison in February after his conviction on second-degree murder. The police recovered video surveillance of the shooting, depicting the moments before and after the incident. Shell casings from two different weapons were also recovered at the scene.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Ernest Chin, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant Attorney Douglas Marquez, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
