Flatbush Man Indicted for Vehicular Assault for Crashing his Car Into Another Vehicle While Drunk, Then Striking Four Pedestrians - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 16, 2018
Flatbush Man Indicted for Vehicular Assault for Crashing his Car
Into Another Vehicle While Drunk, Then Striking Four Pedestrians
Struck Three in Crosswalk and One on Sidewalk;
Defendant’s Blood Alcohol Level Nearly Twice the Legal Limit
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 27-year-old Brooklyn man has been indicted for vehicular assault and other charges in connection with a series of crashes he allegedly caused when driving drunk in Flatbush, striking another car, a group of pedestrians and a man who was standing on the sidewalk.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged unlawful and dangerous actions left a trail of injuries and carnage when he allegedly drove drunk. Brooklyn’s streets must be safe for pedestrians, cyclists and drivers alike, and I intend to continue to hold motorists who engage in criminal behavior accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as David Olivier, 27, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned yesterday before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Martin Murphy on a 14-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree vehicular assault, second-degree assault, first-degree reckless endangerment and related counts. Bail was set at $150,000 bond or $75,000 bail and the defendant was ordered to return to court on June 6, 2018. He faces up to 7 years in prison if convicted of the top count with which he is charged.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 13, 2018, at approximately 8:40 p.m., the defendant was operating a 2004 silver Mercedes-Benz, driving southbound on Flatbush Avenue. At the intersection of Farragut Road, his car allegedly struck a white BMW that was traveling northbound on Flatbush Avenue and attempted to make a left turn onto Farragut Road. As a result of the collision, the BMW crashed into a gold Honda.
The defendant continued going south on Flatbush Avenue and struck three pedestrians, ages 16, 21 and 22, who were standing on the street corner by the crosswalk. He then allegedly drove onto the sidewalk and struck a fourth pedestrian, 45, who was standing at a phone booth. All four pedestrians were thrown to the ground in front of the defendant’s car, the evidence shows.
The injured pedestrians all suffered various fractures. The drivers of the BMW and Honda suffered pain and bruising. The defendant, who sustained a broken neck, refused saliva, breath and blood tests to test for alcohol. Pursuant to a warrant, blood that was drawn as part of the defendant’s treatment was analyzed and the testing showed that his blood alcohol level after the crash stood at 0.14, twice the legal limit of .08.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Maria Neri of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Klestzick, Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Craig Esswein, Chief of the District Attorney’s Vehicular Crimes Unit.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
