Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Assault and Menacing as Hate Crimes Related to Three Incidents - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 26, 2018
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With
Assault and Menacing as Hate Crimes Related to Three Incidents
Defendant Allegedly Targeted His Victims Because of Their Race on Three Consecutive Days
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was arraigned on a 13-count indictment in which he is charged with assault as a hate crime, menacing as a hate crime and aggravated harassment in connection with three separate incidents in which he allegedly yelled anti-white sentiments and physically assaulted two of his victims.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly terrorized three people during a hate-filled crime spree simply because of the color of their skin. In Brooklyn, everyone regardless of their race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender or religion must be able to safely navigate the streets without fear of being senselessly and violently attacked.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kevin Raphael, 39, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today on a 13-count indictment in which he is charged with third-degree assault as a hate crime, third-degree menacing as a hate crime, aggravated harassment, and related charges before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. The defendant was ordered held on bail of $50,000 cash or $25,000 bond and to return to court on October 24, 2018.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant allegedly assaulted or menaced three white males in the following incidents:
On Sunday, July 29, 2018, at approximately 1 p.m., near Empire Boulevard and Rogers Avenue, the defendant allegedly approached a 30-year-old man who was walking with his pregnant wife and stated: “What are you looking at? What are you looking for? I kill white (expletive) like you, while motioning to his waistband, leading the victim to believe the defendant had a weapon. The defendant then motioned to his backpack and stated: “I will kill every white (expletive) around here.”
On Monday, July 30, 2018, at approximately 9:55 a.m., on the B25 bus near Fulton and Bond Streets, the defendant allegedly approached a 29-year-old law student who was sitting on the bus, punched him in the face and stated: “I hate all you white (expletive). You’re a (expletive). Defendant then exited the bus at the next stop. The victim suffered redness and bruising to his face and eye.
On Tuesday, July 31, 2018, at approximately 6:30 p.m., on the B41 bus at Flatbush Avenue and Kings Highway, the defendant allegedly approached a 59-year-old doctor who was seated on the bus and repeatedly struck him about the head while making anti-white comments including: “You white (expletive) think you got it like that. You white (expletive).” The victim suffered bruising and redness to his face and eye, as well as a concussion.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Detective Oscar Fernandez of the Hate Crimes Task Force, under the supervision of Sergeant Charles Senat.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Adriana Rodriguez, of the District Attorney’s Civil Rights Bureau and Hate Crimes Unit, and Assistant District Attorney Paul Gentile of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli Muse, Deputy Chief of the Civil Rights Bureau, and under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Joseph P. Alexis, Chief of the Trial Division.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
