Three Gang Members Sentenced in Connection with the Shooting Death of Carey Gabay During J'ouvert Celebration in 2015 - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 12, 2018
Three Gang Members Sentenced in Connection with the Shooting Death of
Carey Gabay During J’ouvert Celebration in 2015
Took Part in Gun Battle on Crowded Street Where At Least Nine Guns Were Fired
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that three gang members have been sentenced in connection with the death of Carey Gabay, an aide to Governor Cuomo, who was fatally shot outside the Ebbets Field Houses in Crown Heights on Labor Day 2015.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “In Brooklyn, we will continue to fight against senseless gang violence that in this instance led to the tragic death of Carey Gabay, an innocent, bright young man with a loving family and a promising future. I hope that Mr. Gabay’s family is able to take some solace in the measure of justice delivered with today’s sentences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Micah Alleyne, 26, of Jamaica, Queens; Kenny Bazile, 33, of Canarsie, Brooklyn; and Stanley Elianor, 27, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. Alleyne and Bazile were convicted of second-degree manslaughter and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. Elianor was convicted of first-degree reckless endangerment. The defendants were convicted following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice, who today sentenced Alleyne to 20 to 30 years in prison, Bazile to 20 to 25 years in prison, and Elianor to three and a half to seven years in prison.
Another defendant, Tyshawn Crawford, 23, previously pleaded guilty to charges relating to the shooting of Mr. Gabay in exchange for a promised sentence of 14 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, the incident took place during the early morning hours of September 7, 2015 in front of 1680 Bedford Avenue, which is part of the Ebbets Field Houses in Crown Heights. At the time of the shooting, the patio and street in front of the building were filled with hundreds of people, many of whom were celebrating J’ouvert, a traditional predawn festival that precedes the annual West Indian American Day Parade.
The building’s large patio was known to be controlled by the Folk Nation street gang, which has been engaged in a years-long war with the 8-Trey faction of the Crips gang, among others. Due to heightened tensions and despite the annual celebration, there were numerous armed gang members in the area that morning with the intention of shooting at rivals on sight, the evidence showed.
At about 3:40 a.m., a group of 8-Trey members walked up from Montgomery Street, apparently heading toward the J’ouvert procession on Empire Boulevard, about two blocks to the south. Their presence in “enemy territory” sparked a gun battle between Folk Nation members and their affiliates, who were shooting from the street and the patio, and the 8-Trey members who fired from the street before fleeing north. An estimated two to three dozen shots were fired in two consecutive volleys from at least eight firearms, according to the evidence.
At the same time, Carey Gabay, 43, a first deputy counsel for the Empire State Development Corporation and a former assistant counsel to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, was walking north on Bedford Avenue with his brother and a couple of friends after attending the J’ouvert procession. They happened upon the front of the patio just as the gun fight broke out. The group ran to a parking lot located between the patio and the street and ducked near parked cars. A bullet struck Mr. Gabay in the head and he was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where he died on September 15, 2015.
The District Attorney thanked the following KCDA staff for their assistance in the investigation and trial: Senior Executive for Law Enforcement Operations Gregory A. Thomas, Counselor Michel Dilone of Victim Services, Paralegals Jacqueline Murphy and Gabriella Said, and Senior Digital Forensic Analyst Jason Lee of Information Technology.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Emily Dean and Olatokunbo Olaniyan of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Appellate Attorney Seth Lieberman, under the supervision of Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief, and Mark Feldman, Senior Executive Assistant District Attorney for Crime Strategies and Investigations.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
