Police Officer Indicted for Public Lewdness, Exposure - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, March 2, 2018
Police Officer Indicted for Public Lewdness, Exposure
Defendant Allegedly Exposed Himself on Multiple Occasions
To Five Female Police Officers While on Duty
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a New York City Police Officer was arraigned today on an indictment in which he is charged with seven counts of public lewdness and four counts of exposure for allegedly exposing himself to other officers while on duty.
District Attorney Gonzalez said “There is no place for this defendant’s alleged outrageous behavior anywhere in our society and especially within our police department. I commend the Internal Affairs Bureau and my prosecutors for taking swift action to investigate and prosecute these disturbing allegations.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Police Officer Anthony Avosso, 31, who is assigned to the 60
th
Precinct anti-crime unit. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with seven counts of public lewdness and four counts of exposure of a person. He was released without bail and ordered to return to court on May 2, 2018.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 16, 2018, a female officer assigned to the 60
th
precinct filed a complaint with her Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association delegate stating that the night before and on two other occasions the defendant exposed himself to her during the course of conducting normal business in the precinct stationhouse while they were alone in a room.
Following that disclosure, and upon further investigation, it is alleged that the officer:
Exposed himself to a probationary female officer who was just out of the Police Academy while asking her about her goals in the department.
Exposed himself on the subway while returning to the precinct from 350 Jay Street, the District Attorney’s Office, to a female police officer sitting next to him, for a period of time.
Exposed himself to another female officer and masturbated in front of her in a marked police car during an overnight tour for a period of time, until she finally exited the vehicle.
Exposed himself to a fifth female officer inside the 60
th
precinct stationhouse while the two of them were in a room alone, while asking her questions, and exposed himself a second time while the two of them were in a police car returning from court.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Sergeant Stephanie Robles of Internal Affairs Bureau Group 33 and Lieutenant Michael Parisi of IAB Group 33.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Adriana Rodriguez, of the District Attorney’s Civil Rights Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
