Former Executive Director Indicted for Allegedly Stealing over $458,000 from Fort Greene Nonprofit - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 20, 2018
Former Executive Director Indicted for Allegedly
Stealing over $458,000 from Fort Greene Nonprofit
Defendant Allegedly Embezzled the Money Over a Nine-Month Period
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a former Executive Director of Boys Hope Girls Hope of New York, a local chapter of a national nonprofit, was arraigned today on an indictment in which he is charged with grand larceny and other charges for allegedly transferring over $458,000 from the organization’s bank account into unauthorized bank accounts, two of which were in his own name.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly embezzled money from a nonprofit whose mission is to help disadvantaged youth in our community reach their full potential. He not only abused his position as an executive by his alleged criminal actions, but also betrayed the trust of the organization he was supposed to lead.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Malick Fall, 39, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with three counts of second-degree grand larceny and four counts of third-degree grand larceny. He faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the top count. He was ordered held on $250,000 bond or $100,000 cash bail and to return to court on February 6, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between October 15, 2015 and June 7, 2016, the defendant allegedly made six unauthorized transfers totaling $458,950 from a bank account of the organization into various bank accounts, including two accounts in his name. It is alleged that he transferred an aggregate total of $355,000 electronically on January 4, 2016, January 11, 2016 and June 7, 2016 into a personal account that he maintained at TD Bank. On October 15, 2015, the defendant allegedly transferred $48,950 into a personal account he maintained at Chase Bank.
The defendant denied knowledge of the six transfers when the theft was discovered through an audit. The matter was referred to the New York City Police Department by trustees of Boys Hope Girls Hope of New York.
The case was investigated by Chief Financial Analyst Arthur Criscione and Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph DiBenedetto, of the District Attorney’s Office.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph DiBenedetto, of the District Attorney’s Cyber Crimes Unit/Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Gavin Miles, Counsel to the Frauds Bureau, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
