Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications for High School Mid-Winter and Spring Break Internships - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, October 11, 2018
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications for
High School Mid-Winter and Spring Break Internships
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced the start of the application process for high school juniors and seniors interested in participating in the mid-winter and spring break internship program. The internship is open to students who live and /or attend high school in Brooklyn and are interested in learning about the different careers and responsibilities within the criminal justice system. The mid-winter internship cycle runs from Tuesday, February 19, 2019 to Friday, February 22, 2019.  The spring internship cycle runs from Monday, April 22, 2019 to Friday, April 26, 2019.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We are proud to offer a week-long internship during the mid-winter and spring breaks for Brooklyn’s high school students.  During the week, students will receive exposure to the criminal justice system and gain an understanding and appreciation of a professional work setting.”
Selected students will be assigned to one of the many specialized units within the DA’s office, while also getting an overview of the criminal justice system. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis; assist prosecutors preparing for trial; work on discovery; file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in Trial Zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and alternatives to incarceration.
During the week-long internship, participants will receive a MetroCard to cover transportation expenses. Internship hours will be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Interns selected are expected to commit for the entire duration of the program.
Applicants are required to provide their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume, one letter of recommendation and must submit a 300-word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and what impact they think it will have on their future career goals and aspirations.
To apply, please visit:
http://apply.brooklynda.org
beginning October 11, 2018,
to upload transcript, essay and resume. Only the recommendation letter should be emailed as an attachment to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
, with the subject line: Recommendation Letter (Applicant’s First and Last Name). All application materials must be received no later than Monday, November 12, 2018. For questions or assistance, please contact the High School Internship and Youth Initiatives Program Coordinator at (718) 250-4873.
To learn more about the program visit:
http://54.242.16.69/careers/internship
.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
