Police Officer Indicted for Off-Duty Road Rage Assault - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 9, 2018
Police Officer Indicted for Off-Duty Road Rage Assault
Allegedly Struck Motorist with Handcuffs, Causing Him to Need 10 Stitches; Fled the Scene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a New York City Police Officer has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with assault and other charges for allegedly attacking a motorist on New Year’s Day.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged aggressive driving and outrageous behavior resulted in a frightening attack on a fellow motorist. There is no place for road rage in Brooklyn and it is especially alarming coming from a trained police officer. We will now seek to hold him accountable for his alleged actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Michael Baror, 23, of Transit District 32. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an 11-count indictment charging him with second- and third-degree assault, leaving the scene of an incident without reporting, fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon, reckless driving, menacing and related charges. Bail was set at $15,000 and the defendant was ordered to return to court on August 8, 2018. He faces up to seven years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 1, 2018, at approximately 10:30 p.m., at Avenue N and Bedford Avenue, the defendant was driving his personal vehicle, a Jeep Cherokee that was illegally equipped with lights and sirens. He was allegedly flashing his high beams at a car in front of him and rear-ended it. He then allegedly got out of the car and pulled out his pistol and pistol-whipped the other driver, a 29-year-old man. He repeatedly struck the victim in the face with handcuffs before getting back in his Jeep and driving away.
The victim followed the defendant. The victim’s girlfriend, who was also in the vehicle, called 911 and remained on the phone during the chase. Both vehicles were allegedly speeding and running red lights and the victim eventually crashed into the defendant’s vehicle. Police were at the scene within minutes, but the defendant had fled. He did not report the incident to police or his job. The defendant was arrested the following day and a search of his vehicle revealed that he removed the lights and sirens. The defendant, who is seen on surveillance video with a thick beard and hair on his head during part of the incident, had shaved his head and beard by the time police arrived to arrest him.
The victim was treated at a hospital and sustained stitches to his mouth.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Civil Rights Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
