East New York Man Sentenced to 23 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing His Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 20, 2018
East New York Man Sentenced to 23 Years in Prison for
Fatally Stabbing His Girlfriend
Victim Was Stabbed 12 Times
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 45-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 23 years in prison for fatally stabbing his on-again off-again girlfriend multiple times during an argument in 2015.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant’s callous behavior brought a violent death to a woman for whom he allegedly cared. This senseless act of violence robbed a family of a loving mother and grandmother. The defendant has now been held accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gregory White, 45, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent DelGiudice to 23 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter in March.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 24, 2015, at approximately 9:45 p.m. a neighbor found Victoria Hammond, 58, partially naked in the living room of her basement apartment on W. 37th Street, near Neptune Avenue in Coney Island. The grandmother of four had been stabbed 12 times in the neck, head and torso.
Traces of the defendant’s blood were recovered from a light switch in the apartment after he cut himself during the stabbing. According to the investigation, the victim and the defendant were romantically involved.
The defendant was arrested nine months later, on October 28, 2015, when two New York City police officers attempted to write him a summons for lying across multiple seats on a South-bound A train at the Columbus Circle subway station in Manhattan. The defendant later confessed that he stabbed the victim, but claimed it was self-defense after she lunged at him with a knife.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Ernest Chin, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
