Brownsville Woman Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Romantic Rival - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, July 13, 2018
Brownsville Woman Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Romantic Rival
Killed Her Boyfriend’s Ex-Girlfriend After Physical Altercation
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 22-year-old Brooklyn woman has been sentenced to 18 years in prison for fatally stabbing her boyfriend’s ex-girlfriend after the two had a physical altercation in front of the man’s home in Brownsville, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant needlessly and senselessly escalated a fight by using a knife with fatal and tragic consequences. She ended a young woman’s life and ruined her own future because of the terrible choice that she made.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Shenia Williams, 22, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. She was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 18 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following her guilty plea last month to first-degree manslaughter.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 13, 2016, at about 12:40 a.m., the victim, 22-year-old Joanna Beauzier, arrived at the home of her ex-boyfriend on Lott Avenue in Brownsville to confront the defendant. Her 9-month-old son was with her.
The two women engaged in a physical altercation outside the house and were separated a few times, the evidence showed. The defendant then pulled out a knife and stabbed the victim multiple times. The victim sustained three stab wounds to her body and was pronounced dead at Brookdale Hospital.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
