Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 37 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man Inside a Parked Car - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 15, 2018
Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 37 Years to Life in Prison for
Fatally Shooting Man Inside a Parked Car
Fired Eight Times Through Open Window
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 25-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 37 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a father-of-four who was sitting inside a parked car in Gravesend.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s callous actions took a man’s life and robbed four children of their father. This type of heinous gun violence will not be tolerated in Brooklyn and I will continue to keep our streets safe by ensuring that ruthless killers be brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Deyshawn James, 25, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Evelyn LaPorte to 37 years to life in prison following his conviction last month of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that on September 12, 2015, at approximately 5:30 a.m., the victim, 32-year-old Clarence Bryant, was sitting in the back seat of a double-parked car on 86th Street in Gravesend, Brooklyn. According to trial testimony, the defendant approached the vehicle and opened fire through an open window. He struck the victim eight times – twice in the face and six times in the back.
The victim tried to crawl for his life to the front seat, where he bled profusely, the evidence showed. The driver of the car drove him to Coney Island Hospital, where he succumbed to his wounds. The defendant fled in a waiting vehicle, according to the evidence. The shooting was captured on surveillance video.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
