Brooklyn Man Indicted for Rape and Robbery After Allegedly Dragging a Woman into an Alleyway in Bushwick - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, July 11, 2018
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Rape and Robbery After Allegedly
Dragging a Woman into an Alleyway in Bushwick
Defendant Grabbed the Victim as She Walked to Laundromat;
Attempted to Rob Another Woman Earlier That Night
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 23-year-old Bushwick man has been indicted on rape, robbery and related charges for allegedly attacking a 23-year-old woman after dragging her into an alleyway at knife point, and for attempting to rob another woman at knifepoint in an earlier incident.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly brutally victimized two women and destroyed their sense of safety. Today’s court action is the first step to ensuring that he is held accountable for his alleged violent crimes.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Thomas Gallishaw, 23, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Miller on a 26-count indictment in which he is charged with predatory sexual assault, first-degree rape, first-degree robbery as a sexually motivated felony, first-degree sexual abuse and other charges. He was ordered held on $1 million bail and to return to court on September 13, 2018. He faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 12, 2018, at approximately 10:30 p.m., the defendant allegedly targeted a 23-year-old female victim in front of 28 Stuyvesant Avenue, in Bushwick, Brooklyn. The victim had just exited a nearby building and was walking to a laundromat. The defendant allegedly placed his arm around her neck and placed a knife to her neck.  He then allegedly dragged her to the alleyway in the rear of the building, threw her to the ground and raped her.
A neighbor heard a commotion in the alleyway and called 911, according to the investigation, at which time the defendant allegedly fled with the victim’s iPhone and purse. When the police arrived, a responding officer passed the defendant on the way out of the alleyway. After seeing the woman crying on the ground, the officer called out to the sergeant on the scene to stop him from leaving. As the sergeant tried to stop him, the defendant fled. He was pursued by police, who eventually located him using the Find My iPhone app on the victim’s iPhone, which the defendant allegedly had, along with a knife, when he was arrested.
At approximately 9:45 p.m., earlier on the same night, at Kosciousko Street and Nostrand Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly attacked a 32-year-old woman. He allegedly approached her from behind, displayed a knife, threw her to the ground and climbed on top of her, according to the investigation. The victim’s boyfriend interceded and the defendant allegedly ran away.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Linda Weinman, of the District Attorney’s Special Victim’s Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not a proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
