Flatbush Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Shooting Man Six Times After Arguing at Cookout in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 28, 2018
Flatbush Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Shooting Man
Six Times After Arguing at Cookout in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Defendant Left the Party and Returned to Shoot the Victim
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 46-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 15 years in prison after being convicted of attempted murder for shooting a man six times at a 2016 barbeque following an argument.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant’s actions put everyone who was attending the cookout in immediate danger. He has now been held accountable for his callous behavior. My office will continue to prosecute all individuals who show no regard for human life or respect for our laws.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Fred Richardson, 46, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Suzanne Mondo to 15 years in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder following a jury trial in April.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 2, 2016, at approximately 11:43 p.m., the defendant was at a cookout on Chauncey Street, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. While at the gathering, the defendant approached the 42-year-old victim, who lived on the block, and inquired about getting guns. The victim told the defendant he would not be able to help him with that, and then referred to the defendant as “son,” to which the defendant apparently took offense, according to trial testimony.
The defendant left the party, according to testimony, and returned with a gun. He then walked towards the victim and shot him three times in the back, causing him to fall to the ground. The defendant then stood over the victim and shot him twice in the stomach and once in the arm at point blank range, before fleeing.
The victim, who was rushed to Kings County Hospital, suffered significant, life-threatening injuries, according to his doctor’s testimony at trial.
The defendant was arrested on August 4, 2016 after being identified from a photo array.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Matthew Midey and Jacob Uriel, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
