Eighteen Alleged Gang Members and Associates Variously Charged with Conspiring to Commit Murder and Possess Weapons in East Flatbush Rivalries - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 21, 2018
Eighteen Alleged Gang Members and Associates Variously
Charged with Conspiring to Commit Murder and Possess Weapons in
East Flatbush Rivalries
Defendants Allegedly Opened Fire on Public Streets, in Kings Plaza Shopping Center;
Responsible for Eight Separate Shootings, Including two Murders
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner James P. O’Neill, today announced that 18 alleged members and associates of the East Flatbush- based street gang Martense Beverly Bosses are variously charged in a 41-count indictment with conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to possess weapons, and other charges in connection with eight separate shootings, including two murders.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants are dangerously obsessed with committing acts of violence. In this case, we allege, they cavalierly discuss shooting at rivals as if they were keeping score at a basketball game. But this is not a game. There is a trail of dead and injured victims. I remain vigilant in protecting our communities from this type of violence and terror which have no place on the streets of Brooklyn.”
Commissioner O’Neill said, “This case perfectly demonstrates the NYPD’s effectiveness in precisely targeting the real drivers of violence in New York City. These gang members walked the streets of Brooklyn, guns in their hands, acting as though life and death is some kind of game. New Yorkers are safer today because these criminals have been arrested and charged. And, with the help of law enforcement partners like the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, we will continue to relentlessly pursue anyone, anywhere in our city – and dismantle criminal organizations along the way – whenever public safety is threatened.”
The District Attorney said that the defendants were arraigned this week before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justices Dineen Riviezzo and Miriam Cyrulnik and variously held on bail. All of the defendants are charged with second- and fourth-degree conspiracy. They are variously charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, first-degree criminal use of a firearm, first- and second-degree attempted assault, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, second-degree assault, and first-degree reckless endangerment. If convicted, the defendants face up to 25 years in prison on the top conspiracy count. (See defendant addendum).
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, the defendants are alleged to be members of Martense Beverly Bosses (“MBB”). MBB is alleged to be a subset of a larger criminal street organization known as the “Five-Nine Brims,” which in turn is a subset of the Bloods gang. MBB operated primarily in and around the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
It is alleged that, between June 1, 2016 and June 14, 2018, during the course of the conspiracy, the gang had multiple rivals, including, most notably, an East Flatbush gang known as “Collect Your Guap,” (CYG) which is a subset of Folk Nation, and operated out of the Flatbush Gardens apartment complex, formerly known as the Vandeveer Estates. That feud was escalated by the belief by MBB members that CYG members shot and killed MBB member Tyreke “Trini” Borel on September 5, 2016.
It is alleged that numerous other shootings, including two fatal shootings, occurred during the course of the conspiracy and in recorded conversations MBB members regularly discuss who is “up on the scoreboard,” referring to shootings between the rival gangs. The defendants referred to guns as “ball kicks” and gunshots that missed their targets as “air balls.” Jailed gang members were referred to as “bench warmers.”
It was further part of the conspiracy to keep incarcerated MBB members and associates informed of the activities and events related to the gang, including but not limited to, arrests of members and associates, acts of violence committed by and against MBB members and associates, including beatings and shootings against rivals.
Among the acts of violence charged in the conspiracy are the following:
On July 8, 2017, at approximately 5:40 p.m., Quentin Raymond, Jeremy Denaud and Stephon Daly were walking in the Kings Plaza Mall when they spotted rival gang members. They allegedly tried to coax the rivals outside, but were unsuccessful. Minutes later Daly allegedly handed off a gun to Raymond, who aimed and fired but was only able to get off a single round when his gun jammed.
On September 16, 2017, at approximately 4:25 a.m., Donaven Frazier was shot and killed, allegedly by Gymanni Carrington as he was exiting Franklin’s Finest Deli in Crown Heights. Frazier was allegedly a Lincoln Fam member and MBB rival.
On October 20, 2017, Javed Duncan and several other individuals were walking on Linden Boulevard when Duncan allegedly fired six shots from a .380 caliber pistol at a rival, striking him once in the foot.
On April 1, 2018, Kobe Franklyn, Harold Phillips and two others left Phillips’ house and walked into rival gang territory. Franklyn allegedly carried the gun to and from the shooting, while Phillips allegedly shot and killed Jerome Spence, a 26-year-old construction worker.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Sean Feliciano and Detective Veerana Ramayya, of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, under the supervision of Sergeant Richard Young and Lieutenant Richard Zacarese, and the overall supervision of GVSD Commanding Officer, Assistant Chief James Essig.
The case was additionally investigated by Assistant District Attorney Peter Towsky, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, with the assistance of Senior Assistant District Attorneys Thomas Teplitsky, Iris Das, Luis Segura and Laurie Baio.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Peter Towsky, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jonathan R. Sennett, Deputy Bureau Chief of VCE and Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Patricia McNeill, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
Romel Baptiste, 18, Vandeveer Place, Brooklyn.
Gymanni Carrington, 17, Pacific Street, Brooklyn.
Stephon Daly, 19, Avenue D, Brooklyn.
Jeremy Denaud, 17, Brooklyn.
Javed Duncan, 17, Lenox Road, Brooklyn.
Asa Francis, 18, East 58
th
Street, Brooklyn.
Kobe Franklyn, 16, East 26
th
Street, Brooklyn.
Kahrone Hyde, 18, Pacific Street, Brooklyn.
Aysia Perez, 19, Flushing Avenue, Brooklyn.
Demitrius Philemon, 20, Brooklyn Avenue, Brooklyn.
Harold Phillips, 19, New York Avenue, Brooklyn.
Jahmel Phillips, 20, New York Avenue, Brooklyn.
Quentin Raymond, 17, Hart Street, Brooklyn.
John Rodriguez, 21, Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn.
Elijah Roy, 18, East 52
nd
Street, Brooklyn.
Tyrique Royal, 19, Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn.
Chyanne Tait, 19, Hancock Street, Brooklyn.
Name withheld pending arraignment.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
