Brownsville Woman Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man in the Back - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 26, 2018
Brownsville Woman Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for
Fatally Shooting Man in the Back
Fired at Victim During Dice Game
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 28-year-old Brooklyn woman has been sentenced to 22 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 29-year-old man who was playing dice outside the Union-Sutter Houses in Brownsville, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We will vigorously prosecute anyone who chooses to settle disputes with guns and bullets, and showing no regard to the danger they pose to innocent bystanders. This type of violence in our streets will not be tolerated, as this defendant learned today.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tyaisha Key, 28, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. She was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 22 years to life in prison following her conviction earlier this month of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on June 21, 2017, at approximately 12:30 a.m., near 2069 Union Street in Brownsville, Brooklyn, the victim, Leonard Reddick, 29, and a small group of people were playing dice, drinking and listening to music. Surveillance footage showed the defendant running to her house around the corner and returning with a firearm. The defendant approached the victim and fired the gun three to four times, hitting him once in the back as he tried to run away.
The victim collapsed at the scene and was taken to Brookdale Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant was identified to police as the killer by an eyewitness, who was outside at the time of the shooting. She surrendered to police on July 10, 2017.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Bernarda Villalona, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Marybeth Allen, of the Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
