High School Teacher Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Sexual Abuse of Teenage Student - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 11, 2018
High School Teacher Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him
With Sexual Abuse of Teenage Student
Abuse Allegedly Occurred in Classroom and in Defendant’s Home
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 66-year-old business teacher at Erasmus Hall High School in Flatbush has been arraigned on a 25-count indictment in which he is charged with sexually abusing a 16-year-old boy on multiple occasions.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged actions are an incredible betrayal of trust. Teachers should protect their students and schools should be safe havens. There is no place in our society for this type of predatory behavior and unacceptable abuse of authority.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mervyn Affoon, 66, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice William Miller on an indictment in which he is charged with forcible touching, third-degree sexual abuse, endangering the welfare of a child, third-degree criminal sexual act, sexual misconduct, and promoting a sexual performance by a child. Bail was set at $25,000 cash or $50,000 bond and the defendant was ordered to return to court on May 15, 2018.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on three occasions in February 2017, in Erasmus Hall High School, located on Flatbush Avenue, in Flatbush, Brooklyn, the defendant, who was 65 years old, allegedly groped a 16-year-old student, once in a classroom and twice in an elevator.
It is further alleged that between March 2017 and June 2017 the defendant and the victim engaged in sex acts on multiple occasions at the defendant’s apartment in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. The investigation began after the victim disclosed the abuse to his mother in October 2017.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Detectives assigned to the Brooklyn Special Victims Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Linda Weinman and Assistant District Attorney Albert Suh, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
