Brooklyn Man Sentenced to up to 25 Years in Prison For Sexually Assaulting a Child Over Seven Years - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, August 17, 2018
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to up to 25 Years in Prison
For Sexually Assaulting a Child Over Seven Years
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to up to 25 years in prison following his conviction last month on charges of course of sexual conduct against a child for the repeated abuse of a young girl over a seven-year period, starting when she was eight years old.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s shameful actions are shocking and disturbing. I commend the victim in this case for the bravery she showed in coming forward and facing this predator in the courtroom, ensuring by her testimony that he was held accountable. This case also underscores my Office’s commitment to holding sex offenders responsible whenever possible despite the passage of time.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Guede Ble, a.k.a., Ble Guede, 66, of East New York, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deborah Dowling to the maximum term of 12 ½ to 25 years in prison. He was convicted of first-degree course of sexual conduct against a child following a jury trial in June.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, over a seven-year period beginning in January 1995 and continuing through November 2001, during which time the victim was between the ages of 8 and 14, the defendant repeatedly sexually assaulted the victim at various residences in Brooklyn.
The victim never reported the abuse to her family or law enforcement out of fear of reprisal from the defendant, according to trial testimony. She did confide in an assistant basketball coach at the age of 18, but asked her not to report the abuse to police for fear of the defendant, according to trial testimony. When the victim was 29, she called the New York City Police Department’s Sex Crimes Report Line to report the abuse and an investigation was launched by detectives assigned to the NYPD’s Special Victims Bureau. The defendant was arrested on June 28, 2016.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Andrea Mauro and Assistant District Attorney Artur Jagielski, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
