East New York Man Sentenced to 16 Years in Prison for Three Gunpoint Robberies of Delivery Men - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 24, 2018
East New York Man Sentenced to 16 Years in Prison for
Three Gunpoint Robberies of Delivery Men
Displayed Firearm and Took Property on Different Occasions in Three-Week Span
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 22-year-old Brooklyn man was sentenced to 16 years in prison for committing three gunpoint robberies of delivery men over a three-week span. In each incident, the defendant pointed a silver gun and took the victim’s property.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant repeatedly targeted vulnerable individuals and violently robbed them of their hard-earned money. Keeping the people of Brooklyn safe is my highest priority and today’s sentence ensures that this defendant will not be able to victimize others in our community.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Edward Franklin, 22, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Miriam Cyrulnik to 16 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his conviction this month of three counts of first-degree robbery after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on January 24, 2017, at about 2 p.m., a restaurant delivery man was making a delivery at 807 Schenck Avenue in East New York, which is part of the Boulevard Houses. He called the number on the receipt and was informed by a man that he would come down to get the food. Moments later, the defendant put a silver firearm to the victim’s back and took his belongings, including about $250 in cash.
On February 12, 2017, at about 11:20 a.m., the same delivery man was making a delivery at 756 Stanley Avenue, which is located at the same housing development. He met the customer outside the building, gave him the food and was waiting for the customer to return with a tip. The evidence showed that the defendant then approached the victim, brandished the silver firearm, forced the victim inside the building, pushed him to the ground and fled with his wallet, which contained various forms of identification and approximately $30. The victim then reported both incidents. He recognized the defendant from making multiple deliveries to his apartment and from seeing him at the restaurant where the victim worked.
On February 9, 2017, at about 3 p.m., another delivery man, who works for a local supermarket, made a delivery at 807 Schenck Avenue. When he entered the building, he noticed the defendant in the lobby, according to testimony. When the victim returned to the lobby after delivering the groceries, the defendant held a silver firearm to his stomach and demanded his belongings. He took the victim’s wallet, with about $260 inside, and fled.
The victim called 911 and a detective connected the robbery to the other two. Both victims identified the defendant in court as the man who robbed them.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Elaine Albenda and Assistant District Attorney Elliot Wertheim of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
