Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing His Ex-Wife’s Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 25, 2018
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for
Fatally Stabbing His Ex-Wife’s Girlfriend
Defendant kicked and punched victim before stabbing her in the heart and face
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 37-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for stabbing his ex-wife’s girlfriend to death after finding her asleep in his ex-wife’s bed. According to the investigation, the stabbing happened in front of the defendant’s four children.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant attacked and stabbed to death an innocent and helpless young woman who had her whole life ahead of her. He also left his children to live with the traumatic memory of his actions. I hope that the victim’s family finds some small solace with his conviction and today’s lengthy prison term.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Alwasi Tyson, 37, of Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Laura Johnson to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty earlier this month to first-degree manslaughter.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 14, 2016, at approximately 5:30 a.m., the defendant drunkenly forced his way into his ex-wife’s apartment, located on Clarkson Avenue in Prospect Lefferts Gardens. After pushing his way past his ex-wife at the front door he forced his way into her bedroom, where he found the victim, Toni Cox, 22, sleeping. He then pulled the victim out of the bed, kicked and punched her repeatedly, then stabbed her in the heart and face, causing her death.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andy Palacio, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
