Massachusetts Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison For Killing his Adoptive Mother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 11, 2018
Massachusetts Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison
For Killing his Adoptive Mother
Seventy-Year-Old Victim was Bound with Cords and Strangled Inside her Canarsie Home
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 29-year-old man has been sentenced to 22 years to life in prison following his guilty plea to murder for killing his 70-year-old adoptive mother, who was found bound and strangled inside her home in Canarsie, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant committed a heinous crime by killing his own mother – a beloved and innocent woman. He has now accepted responsibility for this senseless murder and we will continue to fight for all victims of familial violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jayvon Mulzac, 29, of Pittsfield, Massachusetts. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew D’Emic to 22 years to life in prison following his guilty plea last month to second-degree murder.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 17, 2017, Noreen Mulzac, 70, was found dead and tied up inside her Foster Avenue home in Canarsie, Brooklyn. The victim’s bedroom was ransacked. The cause of death was determined to be asphyxiation.
The investigation revealed that the defendant drove to his mother’s home on July 13, 2017, tied her neck and feet with various items, including electric cords, and robbed her. He then drove back to Pittsfield leaving his mother to die in her home. Video footage, witnesses accounts and other evidence connected the defendant to the crime. He was arrested in August 2017 in Pittsfield for misdemeanor assault and was subsequently extradited to Brooklyn.
The District Attorney thanked the Pittsfield Police Department and the New York State Troopers for their assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Michelle Weber, Chief of the District Attorney’s Elder Abuse Unit, and Assistant District Attorney Mark Pagliuco, Deputy Unit Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Chief of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
