Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting a Man During an Ambush in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 22, 2018
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting a Man During an Ambush in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Defendant Ambushed the Victim While He was Sitting in a Courtyard
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 37-year-old man has been sentenced to 23 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a man in 2015 during an ambush in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant carefully planned and executed a cowardly attack on an unsuspecting man. I am committed to continue keeping Brooklyn safe and today’s sentence ensures that this clearly dangerous individual is taken off our streets.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Isaac Bryant, 37, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 23 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon last November following a jury trial.
According to trial testimony, on May 27, 2015, at approximately 3:30 p.m., the defendant exited a car and walked towards the victim while holding a handgun and started shooting. The victim, Jamaal Anderson, 31, was sitting in a courtyard at 1615 Fulton Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Anderson attempted to run away when he heard the shots, but was shot in the back and collapsed. The defendant then ran back to the car and drove off.
The shooting was in retaliation for a friend’s shooting days earlier, according to trial testimony.
The District Attorney said that the victim was taken to Interfaith Hospital where he was later pronounced dead. Investigators recovered surveillance video showing the defendant running towards the victim while shooting a gun. Bryant was also recorded running away and getting into his car after the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Ernest Chin, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant Attorney Douglas Marquez, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
