Flatbush Man Convicted of Assault for Broad Daylight Shooting of Innocent Man Outside of Barclays Center - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 28, 2018
Flatbush Man Convicted of Assault for Broad Daylight
Shooting of Innocent Man Outside of Barclays Center
Victim Was Exiting the Subway When He Was Struck
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 30-year-old Brooklyn man was convicted of first-degree assault and first-degree attempted assault for shooting a 50-year-old man in the ankle outside of the Barclays Center last year.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant fired numerous shots in the middle of the day in a busy area, endangering scores of innocent people. Luckily no one was killed. This verdict underscores our commitment to the safety of the people of Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jonathan Cordoba, 30, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was convicted yesterday of one count of first-degree assault and one count of first-degree attempted assault following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht, who set sentencing for December 12, 2018.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 14, 2017, at approximately 2:05 p.m., on Flatbush Avenue, near the Barclays Center, the victim, a 50-year-old man who had just exited the subway and was walking to work, heard and saw two people arguing on the street. One of the men was the defendant. The victim saw a gun in the defendant’s hand and began to run. He then heard multiple shots fired, was struck in the foot and fell to the ground.
While on the ground, according to trial testimony, the victim saw the defendant fire additional shots at the person with whom he was arguing; that person was not struck. A witness called 911 and the victim was taken to the hospital and treated for a gunshot wound to the ankle.
The defendant was arrested on June 21, 2017, after he was identified from surveillance video.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Farin Chasin-Fodeman and Yasmine Meyer, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Janet Gleeson, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
