Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications For High School Summer Interns - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, March 12, 2018
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Is Accepting Applications
For High School Summer Interns
Joint Partnership with United Federation of Teachers;
Will Give Students an Opportunity to Learn About the Criminal Justice System
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew, today announced the launch of the application process for high school sophomores, juniors and seniors interested in participating in the summer internship program. The five-week paid internship is open to students who live and /or attend high school in Brooklyn, and are interested in learning about the different careers and responsibilities within the criminal justice system. The internship runs from July 9 to August 10, 2018.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We are thrilled to once again open our doors to high school students eager to learn about the criminal justice system. This type of exposure can help a student shape their goals and imagine themselves pursuing a career in law. This internship is a great opportunity to observe how all the parts of our criminal justice system work together.”
President Mulgrew said, “The Brooklyn District Attorney’s office gives our high school students real world work experience and quality mentoring. We are pleased to partner with District Attorney Eric Gonzalez on this project.”
Selected students will be assigned to one of the many specialized units within the DA’s office, while also getting an overview of the criminal justice system. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis; assist prosecutors preparing for trial; work on discovery; file maintenance and organizing court documents; participate in trial zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
Interns will receive a MetroCard to cover their transportation needs which are being provided by the United Federation of Teachers.
During the five-week paid internship participants will receive a $150 stipend per week, and a weekly MetroCard. Internship hours will be: Monday through Thursday, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., and Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 pm. Applicants are required to provide their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume, one letter of recommendation, and must submit a 300-word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and what impact they think it will have on their future career goals and aspirations.
To apply, please visit:
http://apply.brooklynda.org
beginning today, March 12, 2018, to upload transcript, essay and resume. Only the recommendation letter should be emailed as an attachment to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
, with the subject line: Recommendation Letter (Applicant’s First and Last Name). All application materials must be received no later than Friday, April 27, 2018. For questions or assistance, please contact the High School Internship and Youth Initiatives Program Coordinator at (718) 250-4873.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
