Two Alleged Gang Members Indicted for Drive-By Murder - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 1, 2018
Two Alleged Gang Members Indicted for Drive-By Murder
Shot Victim Through Window of BMW; Third Defendant Charged with Weapon Possession
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two alleged gang members have been indicted on charges of murder and weapon possession in connection with a drive-by shooting that claimed the life of a 21-year-old man.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Brazen acts of gun violence like the one committed in this case often lead to avoidable deaths and put innocent bystanders in danger. To keep our communities safe, we will remain focused on bringing gang members, who are driving much of the violence in Brooklyn, to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Rean Awong, 21, of Flatbush, Darren Wilson, 18, of Canarsie, and Anjuwon Butcher, 21, of Flatbush. They were arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice who ordered them to return to court on September 28, 2018. Awong and Wilson are charged with second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon; Wilson is additionally charged with first-degree reckless endangerment. They were remanded without bail and face a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count. Butcher is charged with second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. His bail was set at $25,000 and he faces up to 15 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 9, 2018, at approximately 7:10 p.m., all three defendants were allegedly inside a blue BMW – Awong in the back seat, Wilson, who owns the vehicle, in the driver’s seat, and Butcher in the passenger’s seat. Near the corner of East 89th Street and Avenue L in Canarsie, the BMW slowed down and Awong allegedly opened fire at the victim through an open rear window. The incident was captured on video surveillance.
Julian Edwards, 21, was struck by the bullets and was rushed to Brookdale Hospital. He died a day later.
After the shooting, the BMW drove away and was chased by police until it crashed into a parked vehicle. Awong fled the car during the chase and was apprehended. Wilson was caught after the crash and Butcher ran away from the scene of the crash and was apprehended a short distance away, the evidence shows.
The murder weapon was not recovered. Another firearm, a .380 caliber gun, was recovered from the BMW. All three defendants are allegedly members of the Folk Nation street gang.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
