New Jersey Man Sentenced to 22 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing His Live-in Girlfriend in their Flatbush Apartment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 30, 2018
New Jersey Man Sentenced to 22 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing His Live-in Girlfriend in their Flatbush Apartment
Victim Ran to Neighbor’s Door to Seek Help After Attack
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 55-year-old New Jersey man was sentenced to 22 years in prison after pleading guilty to fatally stabbing his 53-year-old girlfriend. The attack happened two weeks after the defendant moved into the victim’s Brooklyn apartment.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant responded to a woman’s rejection with rage and brutality, then left her to die. He has now been held responsible for his actions, and my Office will continue to vigorously prosecute all instances of intimate partner violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Arthur Wyche, 55, of Neptune, New Jersey. He was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 22 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter in May.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 31, 2015, at approximately 8:30 p.m., the defendant stabbed Dorina Webster, 53, multiple times in the chest and both legs after she told him to move out of her apartment in Flatbush. Wyche and the victim met online and dated on and off for three years before moving in together. After the defendant left the apartment the victim sought help from a neighbor who called 911.
When the neighbor opened the door, Webster, who was bleeding, identified Wyche as her attacker. She was taken to Kings County Hospital where she underwent surgery. While in the intensive care unit, the victim told friends and the investigating detective that it was Wyche who stabbed her. Wyche also texted the victim to check on her condition while she was in the hospital.
Webster died due to complications from the stab wounds on September 3, 2015, at Kings County Hospital.
Detectives arrested Wyche on September 5, 2015, at a bus station in New Jersey with a one-way bus ticket to Philadelphia. He was tracked by warrants detectives with help from the New York City Police Department’s Technical Assistance Response Unit.
Following his arrest, Wyche made a video statement admitting to stabbing the victim when she told him to pack his belongings and move out. His DNA was recovered from under the victim’s fingernails and the defendant had a scratch on his forearm.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni and Assistant District Attorney Jaclyn Quiles, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
