Brighton Beach Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison For Fatally Shooting a Friend in the Chest - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 1, 2018
Brighton Beach Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison For Fatally Shooting a Friend in the Chest
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 19 years in prison for the 2015 shooting death of a 29-year-old man.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant showed a total disregard for human life when he fatally shot his friend to death. He has now been held accountable for this crime, and we will continue our efforts to keep the streets of Brooklyn safe from senseless gun violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jeffrey McCrae, 33, of Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Alexander Jeong to 19 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his conviction on December 11, 2017 of first-degree manslaughter and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on March 24, 2015, near 1663 Ocean Parkway, in Midwood, Brooklyn, the defendant shot and killed his friend Natik Nissimov, 29. The defendant shot the victim at least once directly in the chest. The victim was found unresponsive in the street at about 6:40 a.m. He was transported to Coney Island Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
Earlier that night, there was a stabbing of a mutual friend of the defendant and the victim, and the defendant claimed to have seen the deceased pass a knife to the stabber. However, the evidence showed that the deceased had nothing to do with the stabbing. The defendant lured the victim to the location and killed him, according to testimony.
The defendant was arrested on an unrelated grand larceny charge in June 2015 and later made a video statement admitting to the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Bernarda Villalona, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
