Sunset Park Man Indicted for Allegedly Stabbing Interpreter for ACS Social Worker During Home Visit - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 5, 2018
Sunset Park Man Indicted for Allegedly Stabbing Interpreter for
ACS Social Worker During Home Visit
Victim Was Stabbed in the Back with Kitchen Knife
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 61-year-old Sunset Park man was indicted on attempted murder charges for allegedly stabbing a Cantonese interpreter during a home visit. The interpreter was at the home to assist a social worker with the Administration for Children’s Services.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This interpreter and social worker were merely trying to do their jobs and follow up on a neglect report when the defendant allegedly stabbed the victim. Such an unprovoked attack is especially disturbing because it can have a chilling effect on dedicated professionals doing important work to keep our children safe. We’ll now seek to hold the defendant accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Quanyi Feng, 61, of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Martin Murphy on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon. Bail was continued at $250,000 and the defendant was ordered to return to court on January 16, 2019. He faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that on November 8, 2018, at approximately 8 p.m., inside of a building located on 52nd Street in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly stabbed a 55-year-old Queens woman in the back with a kitchen knife. The victim was an interpreter working with an ACS social worker who was making a home visit following reports that the defendant’s grandchildren had been attending school appearing messy and unkempt, according to the investigation.
As the social worker spoke to the child’s mother, a verbal dispute ensued, according to the investigation, and the defendant then entered the room and began arguing with the Cantonese interpreter. As the social worker and interpreter attempted to leave the apartment and make their way down the stairs to exit the building, the defendant allegedly approached the interpreter from behind and stabbed her in the left side of the lower back.
The social worker called 911 and the defendant was arrested at the scene. The knife allegedly used in the attack was recovered in the kitchen.
The victim was hospitalized and treated for multiple stab wounds that damaged various internal organs, requiring surgery.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Garey A. Pierce of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney James Lin, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District David Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
