Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office to Launch Saturday Night Lights Soccer Program in East Flatbush and Brownsville Through Collaboration with the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office and the NYC Soccer Initiative - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office to Launch Saturday Night Lights Soccer Program in East Flatbush and Brownsville Through Collaboration with the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office and the NYC Soccer Initiative
The Free Program Will Offer Lessons and Games Every Saturday
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of Saturday Night Lights in East Flatbush and Brownsville, a soccer program in collaboration with the NYC Soccer Initiative and the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office. The free program will begin on September 21, 2019 at the Winthrop Beacon Community Center in East Flatbush. The soccer program is open to boys and girls ages nine to 18.
The weekly sessions will offer an opportunity to learn character building skills by working as a team and with experienced coaches. The program will run every Saturday night from 6 to 9 p.m., year-round.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “In Brooklyn, we are excited that the Saturday Night Lights program, which exists in East New York, is now expanding to East Flatbush and Brownsville, thanks to the generosity of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
“These terrific programs give our children a place to spend their Saturday nights in a safe and productive environment where they not only learn sports and sportsmanship, but help our children build confidence and develop life skills. This is a valuable investment in communities that often lack the resources and facilities to constructively engage young people and complements our existing youth programs such as our Chess Partnership, our Explorers Program, our Anti-Bullying Initiative and our Brooklyn Scholars program.
“The goal of my Justice 2020 Action Plan is to enhance public safety while building community trust. Saturday Night Lights achieves both these goals while reducing the criminal justice footprint.”
There are no academic or pre-registration requirements to participate in the soccer program. Parents can enroll their children at the Winthrop Beacon Community Center, located at 905 Winthrop Street in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. The program is part of a two-year grant awarded to City in the Community, the non-profit organization of the New York City Football Club, by the Manhattan District Attorney, which is funding the program.
For more information on our Saturday Night Lights programs, please visit:
http://54.242.16.69/youth-initiatives/
.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
