Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 32 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man and Wounding Bystander Inside Bedford-Stuyvesant Deli - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 32 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man and Wounding Bystander Inside Bedford-Stuyvesant Deli
Defendant Was Recorded on Surveillance Video Firing Weapon
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 32 years to life in prison for fatally shooting an innocent 38-year-old man with whom his girlfriend was romantically involved and wounding an innocent bystander inside a Bedford-Stuyvesant deli.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This is just another example of senseless gun violence that cut short the life of a well-regarded member of the community and endangered everyone in that deli that morning, including a senior citizen who was shot in the hand. We will not tolerate gun violence in Brooklyn and will continue to pursue justice in these cases.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Maurice Hennegan, 25, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced to 32 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice. He was convicted of second-degree murder and third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance on March 5, 2019, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on September 28, 2016, at approximately 7:24 a.m., the defendant went looking for victim Neil Thompson, 38, after the defendant confronted his estranged girlfriend with whom the victim had a relationship. The defendant drove past the laundromat the victim managed with his mother, near the corner of Hart Street and Tompkins Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. The defendant saw the victim was not inside the laundromat and double-parked his car.
The defendant entered a deli at the corner of Hart Street and Tompkins Avenue where Thompson was buying breakfast and repeatedly opened fire with a revolver, according to testimony. A 64-year-old bystander was struck in the hand. Thompson fell to the floor, face down, and the defendant shot him four times in the back from pointblank range.
Following the shooting, according to testimony, the defendant wore glasses and a fake mustache, grew out his hair and used a cane to disguise his appearance. He admitted his guilt in several text messages to his associates, according to the evidence, and surveillance video recovered from inside the deli shows the defendant pointing a gun and firing at the victim.
The defendant was arrested February 16, 2017 on Varet Street near Manhattan Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He had 19 twists of crack-cocaine on him at the time of his arrest.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Daniel Murphy of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
