Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison Following his Guilty Plea for Strangulation Death of His Wife During an Argument - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, March 22, 2019
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison Following his Guilty Plea for Strangulation Death of His Wife During an Argument
Defendant Confessed to his Landlord the Next Day
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 57-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter for strangling his wife. The defendant strangled the victim during an argument inside their Flatlands apartment in September 2017.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “In Brooklyn, we are committed to seeking justice for all victims of intimate partner violence. This defendant attacked and killed the woman he vowed to love and protect. He has now been held accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Loiseau Desmoulins, 57, of Flatlands, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter in January.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 4, 2017, at approximately 11 p.m., inside an apartment located at 3215 Avenue J, in Flatlands, Brooklyn, the defendant strangled his wife by placing his hands around her neck. The victim, 64-year-old Marie Loiseau, and the defendant were married the previous year.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant confessed to his landlord whom he saw outside of the building the following morning. The landlord called the police, but when they arrived, the defendant told the responding officers and emergency medical technicians that he found his wife in that condition. The victim also suffered an injury to her head. Following his arrest, the defendant made a video statement to the police admitting that he strangled his wife until she was no longer breathing.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Weber, Elder Abuse Unit Chief, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle L. Kaminsky, Domestic Violence Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
