Brooklyn Soccer Coach Sentenced to Four Years in Prison For Molesting 10-Year-Old Boy on His Team - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Brooklyn Soccer Coach Sentenced to Four Years in Prison
For Molesting Young Boy on His Team
Child was Abused on Multiple Occasions in Park Bathroom After Practice;
Second Victim, a Teenage Relative, Discovered During Course of Investigation
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 41-year-old former soccer coach has been sentenced to four years in prison following his guilty plea earlier this month to course of sexual conduct against a child and other charges in connection to the molestation of two boys.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s actions are an upsetting and shocking betrayal of trust. This defendant molested a boy on his team and his own relative who both had every expectation to believe they would be safe with him. I remain steadfast in my commitment to bringing sexual predators who target our children to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Pablo Pineda, 41, of Mott Haven, the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Barry Warhit to four years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree course of sexual conduct against a child, forcible touching, two counts of endangering the welfare of a child, and failure to register as a sex offender before Justice Warhit on September 10, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on several occasions between July 1, 2017 and April 27, 2018, at Friends Field, located on East 4th Street near Avenue L, in Midwood, Brooklyn, the defendant molested a boy on his team multiple times beginning when he was 9 and continuing to age 10. The child was molested and exposed to pornography in a park bathroom after soccer practice.
The victim’s mother filed a police report on June 20, 2018, after she discovered text messages from an unknown number asking the victim to go to the movies and not tell his mother. The defendant was arrested the following day.
Investigators who discovered inappropriate text messages on the defendant’s phone later learned that the defendant molested a teenage relative between May and June 2018.
The defendant was supposed to be registered as a sex offender stemming from a 2005 conviction in Texas involving child sexual abuse.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Deborah Cohen, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
