Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 1 ½ to 3 Years in Prison for Three Hate Crime Attacks in Three Days Against White Men - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 7, 2019
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 1 ½ to 3 Years in Prison for Three Hate Crime Attacks in Three Days Against White Men
Defendant Targeted the Victims Because of Their Race in Three Separate Neighborhoods
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 40-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to one-and-a-half to three years in prison for three racially motivated attacks against white men during a three-day crime spree in July 2018. He pleaded guilty to third-degree assault as a hate crime in May.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “As hate-fueled speech continues to emanate from the highest levels of government, leading to despicable acts of violence, it is important to set a different tone in Brooklyn where we will not tolerate hate crimes against anyone. This defendant attacked his victims based on the color of their skin. There is no place for discrimination or violence against anyone based on race, sexual orientation, gender, ethnicity or religious practice. The defendant has now been held accountable for threatening our residents and their safety.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kevin Raphael, 40, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced to one-and-a-half to three years in prison today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. The defendant pleaded guilty to third-degree assault as a hate crime on May 1, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant assaulted or menaced three white males in the following incidents:
• On Sunday, July 29, 2018, at approximately 1 p.m., near Empire Boulevard and Rogers Avenue, the defendant approached a 30-year-old man who was walking with his pregnant wife and stated: “What are you looking at? What are you looking for? I kill white (expletive) like you,” while motioning to his waistband, leading the victim to believe the defendant had a weapon. The defendant then motioned to his backpack and stated: “I will kill every white (expletive) around here.”
• On Monday, July 30, 2018, at approximately 9:55 a.m., on the B25 bus near Fulton and Bond Streets, the defendant approached a 29-year-old law student who was sitting on the bus, punched him in the face and stated: “I hate all you white (expletive). You’re a (expletive).” Defendant then exited the bus at the next stop. The victim suffered redness and bruising to his face and eye.
• On Tuesday, July 31, 2018, at approximately 6:30 p.m., on the B41 bus at Flatbush Avenue and Kings Highway, the defendant approached a 59-year-old man who was seated on the bus and repeatedly struck him about the head while making anti-white comments including: “You white (expletive) think you got it like that. You white (expletive).” The victim suffered bruising and redness to his face and eye, as well as a concussion.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Detective Oscar Fernandez of the Hate Crimes Task Force, under the supervision of Sergeant Charles Senat.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Adriana Rodriguez and Senior Assistant District Attorney Prabhalya Pulim, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Paul Gentile of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli Muse, Hate Crimes Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Joseph P. Alexis, Chief of the Trial Division.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
