Brooklyn Man Indicted for Sexual Assaults on Two Women Over Two Days in Crown Heights - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Sexual Assaults on Two Women
Over Two Days in Crown Heights
Allegedly Attacked First Victim on Subway, Ambushed Second Victim the Following Day
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on a 15-count indictment in which he is charged with robbery, sexual abuse and assault for attacks on two women in Crown Heights less than 36 hours apart. The defendant allegedly attacked and robbed the first victim on a subway train, then assaulted the second victim in an alley the following day.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly prowled our subways and streets for two days preying upon women and spreading fear throughout our community. We will seek to hold him fully accountable and remain committed to seeking justice for sexual assault victims.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Daniel Jean Pierre, 37, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, in Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram on a 15-count indictment in which he is charged with second- and third-degree robbery, second- and third-degree robbery as a sexually motivated felony, first- and third-degree sexual abuse, forcible touching, second- and third-degree assault and other related charges. He was ordered held on $100,000 bail and to return to court on April 10, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, at approximately 1:15 a.m. on January 17, 2019, the defendant boarded a north-bound 4 train at Franklin Avenue where he allegedly approached a woman who was sitting down, attempted to kiss her and as she tried to push him away he pushed her to the floor. The defendant then allegedly molested the woman as she continued to try to fight him off. During the alleged struggle, the victim’s wallet and headphones fell out of her bag onto a subway seat. The defendant allegedly removed $47 from the victim’s wallet and stole her headphones before exiting the train at Atlantic Terminal.
The following day, at approximately 11:10 a.m., the defendant allegedly ambushed a second victim as she walked on Eastern Parkway near Bedford Avenue in Crown Heights. It is alleged that the defendant forced the woman into an alley where he molested her.
The defendant fled the location when a passerby allegedly saw the defendant attacking the victim and intervened. Another passerby called police who conducted a canvas of the area. Officers found the defendant walking three blocks from the incident location and placed him under arrest.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Deborah Cohen of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
