Brooklyn Man Indicted for Violent Home Invasion Burglary Of Elderly Woman - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Violent Home Invasion Burglary Of Elderly Woman
Defendant Allegedly Beat and Robbed 88-Year-Old Victim on Christmas Day
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 50-year-old Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with burglary, robbery, assault and other charges for allegedly violently attacking an 88-year-old woman in her Coney Island apartment on Christmas Day.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant brutally and cowardly assaulted an elderly woman in her home, inflicting a trauma that will last far longer than her physical injuries. Those who violate the sanctity of Brooklyn residents’ homes will be brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Marc Malone, 50, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today on an 11-count indictment in which he is charged with first-, second- and third-degree burglary, second- and third-degree robbery, two counts of second-degree assault, fifth-degree criminal possession of stolen property, second- and third- degree criminal trespass, and seventh-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance. Bail was continued at $500,000 bond or $250,000 cash and the defendant was ordered to return to court on February 28, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on December 25, 2018, at approximately 6:44 a.m., in the vicinity of Surf Avenue and West 24th Street, the defendant allegedly broke into the home of the 88-year-old victim. The defendant allegedly beat the victim about the face and body and demanded she give him her property and cash. He then rummaged through her drawers and jewelry box.
Surveillance footage obtained from the victim’s apartment complex allegedly shows the defendant, identified by civilians and members of the NYPD, entering an elevator at the time of the occurrence and going up to the floor where the victim lives. The surveillance footage allegedly captured the defendant re-entering the elevator approximately 14 minutes later. In both videos the defendant is seen with a rolling suitcase and wearing a dark colored, hooded sweatshirt and camouflage pants.
Additional video police recovered from 2960 West 24th Street, a location where the defendant was known to previously reside, allegedly showed the defendant wearing the clothing and in possession of the rolling suitcase he allegedly had the morning of the home invasion. Officers assigned to the NYPD’s PSA -1 Command identified the defendant.
On December 28, 2018, officers located the defendant at his home on Miller Avenue, in East New York, Brooklyn, and took him into custody. The victim’s ring, earring and watch were allegedly recovered when the defendant was searched.
The victim suffered pain and bruising to her face and body and continues to suffer from headaches and pain related to her injuries.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sara R. Kurtzberg and Assistant District Attorney Michael Pesin-Virovets of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Z. Klestzick, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
