Brooklyn Man Indicted on Attempted Murder and Hate Crime Charges for Allegedly Stabbing Transgender Individual’s Partner After Harassing Couple - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 28, 2019
Brooklyn Man Indicted on Attempted Murder and Hate Crime Charges for Allegedly
Stabbing Transgender Individual’s Partner After Harassing Couple
Victim Was Stabbed in the Back of the Neck
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 32-year-old man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault as a hate crime and related charges for allegedly stabbing a transgender individual’s partner in the neck during an attack outside their apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly violated the sanctity and safety of this couple’s home when he showed up at their door spewing hate, then escalated it to a violent assault. There is no place for such ignorance and intolerance in Brooklyn, where we celebrate our diversity. We will now seek to hold this defendant accountable for this very serious attack.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Emmanuel Dash, 32, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on a 25-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault as a hate crime and related charges. He was ordered held on $40,000 bail and to return to court on October 23, 2019. The defendant faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 22, 2019, at approximately 6:00 a.m., the victim, a 32-year-old male, and his non-gender conforming partner, were allegedly harassed by the defendant outside their apartment on Malcom X Boulevard in Bedford-Stuyvesant. The defendant allegedly knocked on various apartment doors looking for the couple and threatened them when he found their apartment. While outside the apartment, the defendant allegedly said: “I’m glad I know where you live, because I don’t like gay people.”
When the victim’s partner opened the door, the defendant allegedly threatened the partner with a knife. The partner then shut the door to the apartment and told the victim what happened. A short time later, the couple sought to speak with the defendant, who they recognized from the neighborhood.
As the couple was returning to their building, the defendant allegedly charged towards them in the street and allegedly started attacking them with a weapon. The victim was stabbed in the back of the neck while attempting to retreat into the apartment building.
After the defendant fled, the victim’s partner called 911. The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital with a stab wound to the back of the neck, approximately six inches in length, that partially severed the vertebral artery. The defendant was arrested on July 24, 2019, at his home.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Peter Choi, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Ari Farkas, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
