Inmate Sentenced to Prison for Assaulting Correction Officers - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 26, 2019
Inmate Sentenced to Prison for Assaulting Correction Officers
Punched and Dragged an Officer, Pepper Sprayed Two of his Colleagues;
Two Co-defendants Sentenced Previously for Their Part in Attack
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that three inmates who attacked a New York City correction officer inside the Brooklyn Detention Center, punching and dragging him down a flight of stairs, have been sentenced to state prison time.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants have now been held accountable for assaulting a correction officer. We will not tolerate such brazen violence in our detention center, particularly when it is aimed at the hardworking correction officers who put their lives on the line to maintain order and safety in our jails.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Koron Bailey, 32, Johnny Williams, 24, and Gilbert Marcano, 35. Bailey was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser to an indeterminate term of two to four years in prison. He pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted assault last October. Williams pleaded guilty to second-degree assault and was sentenced to five years in prison last year. Marcano pleaded guilty to second-degree obstruction of governmental administration and third-degree assault and was sentenced to two years in prison last year.
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, the incident took place on April 19, 2017, at about 12:10 p.m. inside the Brooklyn Detention Center, located at 275 Atlantic Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn. Bailey repeatedly punched a correction officer in the face and body. Marcano then held the officer’s arms as Bailey continued to punch him. Bailey proceeded to drag the victim down metal stairs with Williams walking behind him, according to the investigation.
Another correction officer responded and assisted his colleague. He observed that Williams was holding pepper spray, a knife and keys that fell from the officer’s duty belt during the assault. Williams refused to hand over the pepper spray and, after a third officer came to help, the defendant sprayed both officers in the eyes with the pepper spray, according to the evidence.
At the time of the incident, the defendants were jailed pending the resolution of cases they were charged with: Bailey for a murder in Manhattan, Williams for a Brooklyn robbery and Marcano for criminal contempt in the Bronx.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie and Senior Assistant District Attorney Linda Hristova, both formerly of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
