Gravesend Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Death of 3-Year-Old Boy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 2, 2019
Gravesend Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Death of 3-Year-Old Boy
Beating Left Victim Brain Dead, Cause of Death was Abusive Head and Neck Trauma
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Gravesend man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for the beating death of his girlfriend’s 3-year-old son, Jaden Jordan. He pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter last month.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a senseless death of a helpless little boy who was left in the defendant’s care. There is no excuse ever, under any circumstances, for beating a child. Today’s sentence is a small measure of justice for Jaden and his devastated family.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Salvatore Lucchesse, 26, of Gravesend, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deborah Dowling to 15 years in prison. He pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on March 19, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the victim, Jaden Jordan, 3, was left home alone with the defendant while the victim’s mother was at work, between approximately 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., on November 28, 2016. At some point while in the defendant’s care, the toddler allegedly defecated on himself. At approximately 4:30 p.m., emergency personnel responded to the victim’s home after the defendant called 911 and reported that the child was unconscious.
The victim, found soiled and unresponsive, was taken to Coney Island Hospital and then transferred to Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center where he remained after falling into a coma. Later examination revealed that Jaden had sustained severe head trauma and a fractured skull. He was removed from life support on Saturday, December 3, 2016, and died the same day. The Office of the New York City Medical Examiner ruled the death a homicide, finding the cause of death to be abusive head and neck trauma.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Linda Weinman, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Kelly Casey, Deputy Bureau Chief, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
