Middle School Teacher Sentenced to Four Years in Prison For Sexually Assaulting 14-Year-Old Student - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 22, 2019
Middle School Teacher Sentenced to Four Years in Prison
For Sexually Assaulting 14-Year-Old Student
Child was Assaulted on Seven Occasions in Classroom and School Bathroom
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 36-year-old former teacher at Lenox Academy Middle School in Canarsie has been sentenced to four years in prison following his guilty plea last month to sexually assaulting a 14-year-old student on multiple occasions.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant exploited his position of trust to prey on a young student, which is an unconscionable betrayal. Schools should be safe havens and parents must be able to feel that their children are being protected while attending class. I hope today’s sentence brings some closure to the young student and his family and I remain steadfast in my commitment to protecting our children.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Andre Braddy, 36, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser to four years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty on July 2, 2019 to second-degree criminal sexual act, promoting a sexual performance of a child and related charges, before Justice Konviser, in exchange for the promised sentence, over the objection of prosecutors, who had asked for five years in prison. The defendant faced up to seven years if convicted at trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on seven occasions between March 19, 2018 and April 20, 2018, in Lenox Academy, located on Flatlands Avenue, in Canarsie, Brooklyn, the defendant, who was 34 years old, sexually assaulted a 14-year-old male student, in his classroom and in the school bathroom, including during school hours. The defendant also admitted to exchanging sexually explicit photos with the student.
The defendant was arrested after the victim’s mother found sexually explicit photos and text messages on his phone and confronted the child, who disclosed the abuse.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Bridget Brodzinski, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
