Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Raping Ex-Girlfriend And Fatally Slitting Her Friend’s Throat with a Knife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 25, 2019
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Raping
Ex-Girlfriend And Fatally Slitting Her Friend’s Throat with a Knife
Pushed His Way into Apartment Through Window, Held Women Captive for Hours
While Ex-Girlfriend’s Daughter Hid in Bedroom
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 42-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years to life in prison for raping his ex-girlfriend and fatally slitting her friend’s throat. The attack lasted several hours while his ex-girlfriend’s 11-year-old daughter hid in a bedroom. He pleaded guilty to murder and predatory sexual assault earlier this month.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a terrifying attack that left an innocent woman dead, another woman brutally assaulted and a child forever traumatized. The defendant inflicted unimaginable violence on this family. Today’s lengthy prison sentence is a step toward justice for the victims in this case.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ruslan Baimov, 42, of Seagate, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent DelGiudice to 20 years to life in prison. He pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and predatory sexual assault on April 8, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, around midnight on October 29, 2017, the defendant entered the Seagate apartment of his former girlfriend, who had recently ended their relationship, by pushing in a window air conditioner unit. When the 38-year-old woman came out of the shower, she found him in the kitchen, holding a knife to the throat of her friend, 42-year-old Larysa Saad, who was visiting.
The defendant slit Saad’s throat and she was left bleeding from the neck for hours. He then cut his ex-girlfriend’s clothes, ran the knife up and down her body, causing a laceration to her leg, and raped her. He remained in the apartment for approximately five hours before leaving. The rape victim’s 11-year-old daughter was hiding in a bedroom during the incident.
Saad was removed to Coney Island Hospital, but never recovered from the attack. She died a week later on November 7, 2017.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
