Two Men Sentenced to 50 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting of Man and Woman Ambushed After Leaving Brooklyn Nightclub - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, October 28, 2019
Two Men Sentenced to 50 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting of
Man and Woman Ambushed After Leaving Brooklyn Nightclub
One Fired a Total of 13 Shots as Victims Sat in Front Seat of Parked SUV,
Another Tracked Victims’ Movements and Acted as a Lookout
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two men have been sentenced to 50 years to life in prison for a June 2017 shooting of a young couple who were ambushed after leaving an East New York nightclub. The defendants, acting in concert, followed the victims from the club and fired 13 shots as the victims sat in the front seat of a parked SUV.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants coldly orchestrated the execution of two young people enjoying a night on the town. Their ruthless violence shattered two families. This sentencing should send a clear message that there are serious consequences for those who devastate and terrorize our communities with gun violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Gary Martin, 35, and Kenrick Bayliss, 37, of East New York, Brooklyn. They were each sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 50 years to life in prison. The defendants were each convicted of two counts of second-degree murder on September 27, 2019, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 23, 2017 at approximately 4:35 a.m., the defendants followed Devon Hannibal, 27, and Christina Stubbs, 23, as the couple left the Linden Hall night club and walked to a car parked on Cleveland Street near Linden Boulevard.
Moments after the victims entered Hannibal’s Dodge Durango SUV, Martin approached and fired 13 shots into the vehicle, striking Hannibal nine times and Stubbs once. The victims both died at the scene. The defendants fled on foot.
The defendants, according to the evidence, coordinated their ambush throughout the night of the shooting. Surveillance video and cell phone records show that Bayliss tracked the victims’ movements inside the club while Martin left the club to return to his home and retrieve a gun. Bayliss also sent Martin a text message asking him to bring back a second firearm so that Bayliss could participate in the shooting. In addition, Bayliss texted Martin to inform him when the victims were leaving the club, followed the victims as they headed back to their car and acted as a lookout while Martin committed the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Deputy Bureau Chief Howard Jackson, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Bianco, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
