Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 21 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man at Crown Heights Gas Station in Broad Daylight - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 21, 2019
Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 21 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Man at Crown Heights Gas Station in Broad Daylight
Defendant Was Recorded on Surveillance Video Firing Weapon;
DNA Recovered from Cellphone Found at Scene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 31-year-old Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 21 years to life in prison for fatally shooting to death a 46-year-old man who he followed into a busy Crown Heights gas station in the middle of the day.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Such brazen shootings will not be tolerated in Brooklyn. We are committed to ending gun violence in our communities and will continue to hold accountable those who put others in harm’s way. This murder left the victim’s son and many family members devastated. I hope they find some solace in today’s sentence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Andre Rodriguez, 31, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced to 21 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Ingram. He was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on January 28, 2019, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 17, 2017, at approximately 12 noon, the defendant and another man followed the victim, Keith Vereen, 46, to a BP gas station at the corner of Atlantic Avenue and Utica Avenue in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The defendant and an alleged accomplice approached the victim while he was at a gas pump filling up his truck. The defendant walked up to the victim, immediately pressed a gun to the victim’s chest and shot him.
Surveillance video shows the defendant approach the victim with a handgun and point the weapon at him. The video also shows the defendant drop a cell phone during the altercation. DNA analysis revealed that the cell phone recovered at the crime scene contained the defendant’s DNA.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
