Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications For High School Summer Interns - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications For High School Summer Interns
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, February 11, 2019
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications
For High School Summer Interns
Internship Will Give Students an Opportunity to Learn About the Criminal Justice System
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of the application process for high school sophomores, juniors and seniors interested in participating in the summer internship program.  The five-week paid internship is open to students who live and/or attend high school in Brooklyn, and are interested in learning about the different careers and responsibilities within the criminal justice system. The internship runs from July 8 to August 9, 2019.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We are delighted to welcome the next class of high school interns interested in learning about the criminal justice system. Our goal every year is to provide the students with an understanding of how the system operates and how my office works to keep Brooklyn safe and strengthen community trust. This competitive internship is a great opportunity for students to get hands-on experience in a busy prosecutor’s office, where they will learn how a commitment to fairness and equal justice is integrated into our practice.”
Selected students will be assigned to one of the many specialized units within the DA’s Office, while also getting an overview of the criminal justice system. They can expect to assist with legal research and analysis; help prosecutors to prepare for trial; work on discovery; carry out file maintenance and organization of court documents; participate in Trial Zone workshops; participate in judicial, legal and law enforcement-related field trips; and observe criminal proceedings, including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
During the five-week internship, participants will receive a $150 stipend per week, and a weekly MetroCard. Internship hours will be: Monday through Thursday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Friday 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Applicants are required to provide their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume, one letter of recommendation, and submit a 300-word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and what impact they think it will have on their future career goals.
To apply, please visit:
http://apply.brooklynda.org
beginning February 11, 2019, to upload transcript, essay and resume. Only the recommendation letter should be emailed as an attachment to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office at
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
, with the subject line: Recommendation Letter (Applicant’s First and Last Name). All application materials must be received no later than March 25, 2019. For questions or assistance, please contact the High School Internship and Youth Initiatives Program Coordinator at (718) 250-4873.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
