Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 19, 2019
Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for
Fatally Stabbing Girlfriend
Defendant Stabbed Victim 20 Times; Pleaded Guilty to Manslaughter
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for fatally stabbing his girlfriend, whose body was found in their apartment with numerous stab wounds.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “With today’s sentence, this defendant has been held accountable. I am committed to ensuring justice for victims of domestic violence and I hope this defendant’s guilty plea and sentence bring some measure of solace to the victim’s daughter, family and friends.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Anthony Bradford, 55, of Gates Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on February 28, 2019.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on the evening of July 2, 2017, the defendant and the victim, his girlfriend of over seven years, were driven home to their Gates Avenue apartment by the defendant’s son after the defendant got into an argument with someone during a barbecue at the defendant’s family’s house around the corner on Monroe Street. At approximately 11:30 p.m. that evening, the defendant returned to his family’s home with blood on his clothes and cuts on his hands. His family called for an ambulance.
According to the investigation, as paramedics treated the defendant’s wounds he stated that he had “done a really bad thing” and that he was “going to jail for a long time.” The defendant’s son directed the paramedics to the defendant’s home. When paramedics entered the apartment, they found the victim, who was deceased, in the bedroom in a pool of blood with 20 stab wounds to her chest, shoulders and arms.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
