East New York Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of 15-Year-Old Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 11, 2020
East New York Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of 15-Year-Old Girl
Defendant Allegedly Prostituted the Victim Multiple Times
After Taking Photos of Her to Use in Online Advertisements
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East New York man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with sex trafficking of a child, promoting prostitution and rape for the alleged sex trafficking of a 15-year-old girl.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This disturbing crime demonstrates that the sex trafficking and exploitation of children is a very real and serious problem in our society. We must protect our youth, especially the most vulnerable, from predators, and we must continue to do all we can to raise awareness about human trafficking. I remain determined to protect all victims from the type of sexual violence allegedly perpetrated by this defendant.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Bryant Entzminger, 40, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser on a six-count indictment in which he is charged with sex trafficking of a child, second- and fourth-degree promoting prostitution, endangering the welfare of a child and two counts of third-degree rape. If convicted of the top count, he is facing a maximum sentence of 25 years in prison and will be required to register as a sex offender. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on January 5, 2021.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 13, 2020, the defendant, who was in the front passenger seat of a red vehicle, allegedly approached the victim as she was walking near Avenue J and invited her to his home.
The defendant allegedly drove the victim to his home in East New York where he engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim and asked her if she wanted to work with him to make some money.
The defendant allegedly dressed the victim in a suggestive outfit and took photos of her to use in online advertisements in order to arrange dates during which the victim engaged in various sex acts with men in exchange for money.
Between October 13 and October 25, 2020, the defendant allegedly took the victim to underground strip clubs where she was made to dance, strip and engage in various sex acts with men in exchange for money. The victim collected the money and gave it directly to the defendant.
It is also alleged that the defendant arranged dates for the victim to meet with men at hotels in Brooklyn to engage in various sex acts in exchange for money and brought the victim to a track in East New York where she solicited men to engage in various sex acts in exchange for money. The defendant allegedly instructed the victim what to charge men for various sex acts. In all these instances, the victim collected the money and gave it directly to the defendant.
In the late evening of October 24, 2020, the victim used a cell phone provided by the defendant to contact a friend and family member. Her family member contacted the New York City Police Department. On October 25, 2020, NYPD officers rescued the victim and brought her to Kings County Hospital for medical treatment.
It is alleged that, between October 13 and October 25, 2020, the defendant engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim multiple times.
The New York City Police Department investigation was led by Detective Elizabeth Gonzalez, under the supervision of Lieutenant Amy Capogna, who oversees the NYPD’s Vice Enforcement Human Trafficking Team. Captain Thomas Milano is the Executive Officer and Inspector Neteis Gilbert is the Commanding Officer of the Vice Enforcement Division.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Mary E. Monahan, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, and under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
