Teenager Indicted for Attempted Murder for Shooting that Wounded Six During Unofficial J'ouvert Celebration - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 29, 2020
Teenager Indicted for Attempted Murder for Shooting that Wounded Six During Unofficial J’ouvert Celebration
Defendant Allegedly Fired into Crowd,
Striking Six People, Including 7-Year-Old Boy
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush teenager has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder and related charges for a shooting that wounded six people, including a 7-year-old boy, during an unofficial J’Ouvert Celebration in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly opened fire into a crowd, disrupting a community celebration while showing complete disregard for the devastation he might cause. It is fortunate that no one was killed as a result of his senseless actions. We remain committed to prosecuting gun violence and will now seek to hold this defendant accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Donovan Bailey, 16, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Youth Court Justice Craig Walker on a 16-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, second-degree assault, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, and related charges. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on November 17, 2020.
The District Attorney said that on September 7, 2020 at approximately 2:44 a.m., the defendant, who was a week shy of his 16th birthday, allegedly fired into a crowd of people gathered for an unofficial J’ouvert Celebration near the corner of Nostrand Avenue and Crown Street. Six individuals, including a 7-year-old boy, were wounded in the shooting.
First responders rushed the victims to Kings County Hospital. Four victims sustained gunshot wounds to their legs, including the 7-year-old boy who was critically injured and sustained a broken femur. Two victims were shot in the foot.
Video surveillance from the corner of Nostrand Avenue and Crown Street shows a silver vehicle pull up to Crown Street approximately five minutes before the shooting. The surveillance footage also allegedly shows the defendant walking south on Nostrand Avenue with a large procession for several blocks and firing a weapon into a crowd before entering the back-passenger side of the silver vehicle and fleeing the scene.
Detectives from the New York Police Department’s Gun Violence Suppression Unit apprehended the defendant approximately 20 minutes after the shooting at the corner of Nostrand Avenue and Lincoln Road. Police recovered a loaded .40 caliber pistol with an extended magazine from the defendant’s fanny pack, which matched shell casings recovered at the scene.
The case is being prosecuted by Executive Assistant District Attorney Nicole Chavis, Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, and Assistant District Attorney Evelina Rene, both of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
