Brooklyn Man Indicted for Allegedly Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 26, 2020
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Allegedly Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush man has been indicted on attempted aggravated murder and other charges for allegedly stabbing a police officer in the neck, taking the injured officer’s gun, using it to shoot the officer’s partner in the hand and also firing it at responding police officers, wounding a third officer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly engaged in an unprovoked and cowardly attack on an officer and his partner, then opened fire at responding officers. We are lucky that these officers were not killed. This case underscores the dangers our police officers face day in and day out. We will now seek to bring this defendant to justice for endangering their lives and the lives of those around them.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dzenan Camovic, 21, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He is charged with three counts of attempted aggravated murder, three counts of first-degree attempted murder, two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and other related charges in an indictment that was filed today in Brooklyn Supreme Court. He is presently being held without bail and will be arraigned on the indictment on a later date.
The District Attorney said that on June 3, 2020, at approximately 11:45 p.m., Police Officer Yayon Frantz Jean Pierre and Police Officer Randy Ramnarine were standing on the corner of Flatbush Avenue and Church Avenue when the defendant, walking south on Flatbush Avenue, walked up to Officer Jean Pierre from behind and allegedly stabbed him in the neck. He then allegedly rushed Officer Ramnarine with the knife and threw it at him.
Officer Jean Pierre allegedly fired at the defendant and then tripped. It is alleged the defendant then struggled with Officer Jean Pierre for control of his gun. After seizing the gun, the defendant is alleged to have fired at Officer Ramnarine, striking him in the hand. Additional police officers responded to the scene and the defendant also opened fire on those officers, striking one of those officers in the hand.
Two officers were shot, both in the left hand, and recovered. Officer Jean Pierre was treated for the stab wound to his neck.
The defendant was hospitalized and treated for multiple gunshot wounds and recovered.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andy Palacio of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
