Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez Announces a Promotion and the Hiring of New Prosecutors, Enhancing Diversity of Leadership and Staff - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 23, 2020
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez Announces a Promotion and the
Hiring of New Prosecutors, Enhancing Diversity of Leadership and Staff
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced recent personnel moves that further enhance his Office’s professional excellence and diversity – a promotion of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson to a Trial Bureau Chief and the appointment of 53 new Assistant District Attorneys who will serve Brooklyn by pursuing justice and public safety while strengthening community trust.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Our Fall 2020 class of newly hired Assistant District Attorneys is truly reflective of Brooklyn’s diversity, and I’m confident that this talented group of lawyers will do an excellent job serving our communities. The promotion of Karla Watson – a tireless and dedicated advocate for the people of Brooklyn – strengthens our Trial Division and makes its leadership ranks even more representative of the community we serve. I wish them all success and know they will make us proud.”
The District Attorney said that of the 53 new ADAs, 27 are attorneys of color. There are 24 men and 29 women. They finished a course of virtual training last month that familiarized them with all aspects of the criminal justice system – Criminal and Supreme Court practice and procedure and Grand Jury practices, as well as classes on criminal justice reform, prosecutorial  ethics, signs of wrongful convictions and more. They have since been assigned to various bureaus in the DA’s Office.
ADA Karla Watson has been promoted this month to Chief of the Red Zone Trial Bureau, which handles criminal cases in East New York, Canarsie, Flatlands, Fort Greene, Marine Park and Mill Basin. She most recently served as a Felony Deputy in the Red Zone.
A graduate of Hofstra University School of Law, ADA Watson joined the Brooklyn DA’s Office in 1999 and since then has worked in Trial Bureaus and the Domestic Violence Bureau, indicting more than 100 felony cases. She tried a wide variety of felony cases, including attempted murders, robberies, home invasions, serious assaults and gun cases. In 2014, she was promoted to Felony Deputy, supervising prosecutors in all aspects of case investigation, preparation and trial. She also investigates complaints in her role as EEO counselor, and represents the Office at precinct council meetings.
ADA Watson is replacing ADA Kin Ng, this year’s recipient of the NYC Bar Association’s Thomas E. Dewey Medal, who will be taking over as Chief of the Blue Zone Trial Bureau. The other Trial Bureau Chiefs are James Lin (Green), Danielle Eaddy (Orange) and Robert Walsh (Grey). Janet Gleeson will be taking on a new position as Chief of Court Operations.
The new ADAs and the law schools from which they graduated are listed below:
Meredith Abrams                                Columbia University School of Law
Pious Pavitar Ahuja                            American University, Washington College of Law
Sahira Asia                                          Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, Yeshiva University
Gillian R. H. Barna                             New York University School of Law
Ingrid Bilowich                                   Emory University School of Law
Lauren Bisogno                                   St. John’s University School of Law
Saeng Bounyasane                              Indiana University School of Law—Bloomington
Bria Carr                                             Drake University Law School
Audrey E. Chao                                   Columbia University School of Law
Kathleen Conlon                                 Brooklyn Law School
Amelia Digirolamo                             Boston University School of Law
Arique Dross                                       Charlotte School of Law
Janai Fraser                                         Rutgers University School of Law—Newark
Troy H. Gayle                                     Syracuse University College of Law
Adam Ghalmi                                      University of Connecticut School of Law
Kaley Annette Hanenkrat                   The University of Michigan Law School
Breana Harris                                      Louisiana State University, Paul M. Hebert Law Center
Devyn Hebert                                     Columbia University School of Law
Garrett D.C. Hines                              Tulane University Law School
Hannah Howard                                 New York University School of Law
Alexander W. Iorio                             Tulane University Law School
Prianka Kazi                                       Fordham University School of Law
Kaitlin Marie Kinsella                                    The George Washington University Law School
Sophie L. Kravet                                 Brooklyn Law School
Werner Kuang                                    Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, Yeshiva University
Katherine La-Rotta                             New York Law School
Charles Lewis                                     Texas Southern Uni.—Thurgood Marshall School of Law
Sherri Litvak                                       City University of New York School of Law
Paige Jill Mankin                                Fordham University School of Law
Aaron George Marrero                        Pace University School of Law
Michael Lesean McGee Jr.                 Chicago-Kent College of Law, Illinois Inst. of Technology
Maria J. Miranda                                 City University of New York School of Law
Daniel Murphy                                    New York Law School
Marjeta Papa Nikolovski                    Pace University School of Law
Andrew Ogbahon                               Hofstra University School of Law
Moise Andre Oge                               St. John’s University School of Law
Paul Ostrer                                          University at Buffalo Law School
Pooja Parekh                                       New York Law School
Jonathan Randolph                             Parrish Temple Uni.—James E. Beasley School of Law
Ainissa Lytrice Proctor                       Charleston School of Law
Kellyann Ryan                                    New York Law School
Zachary Safrin                                    The John Marshall Law School
Andrew James Salinas                        Washington and Lee University School of Law
Iris Santiago                                        New York Law School
Brianna L. Seid                                   New York University School of Law
Douglas Steinberg                               The George Washington University Law School
Benjamin Eric Swanson                     New York University School of Law
Tyler Joseph Tagliaferro                     Case Western Reserve University School of Law
Zachary Charles Trkla                                     Northwestern University School of Law
Alicia M. Trujillo                                New York Law School
Alejandro Vera                                   University of Colorado Law School
Carmen L. Weaver                              William & Mary Law School
Andrew Jackson Yoo                          South Texas College of Law
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
