Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting of Father of Four in the Early Morning Hours of Father’s Day 2018 - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 7, 2020
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting of Father of Four in the Early Morning Hours of Father’s Day 2018
Victim Accused by Defendant of Slashing His Tires Months Earlier;
The Two Argued over a Parking Spot Months Before the Alleged Slashing
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bushwick man has been sentenced to 20 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 33-year-old father of four with whom he had been in a months-long dispute stemming from an argument over a parking spot and a subsequent incident in which someone allegedly slashed the defendant’s tires.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Sadly, a dispute over a parking spot simmered for months and culminated in the death of a father of four in the early morning hours of what was supposed to be a happy Father’s Day. This defendant senselessly escalated a minor dispute, taking the life of a beloved father who had much to live for, and forfeited his own freedom as a consequence of his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as David Hall, 47, of Bushwick, Brooklyn.
The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 20 years to life in prison. He was convicted of second-degree murder on December 12, 2019, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 17, 2018, at approximately 12:15 a.m., the defendant confronted William Fernandez, 33, on a street in Bushwick and accused him of slashing the defendant’s tires. The victim walked away from the confrontation, but the defendant continued to pursue him, following him for several blocks.
The defendant pulled out a gun and pointed it at the victim at the corner of Stanwix Street and Melrose Street. The victim then put his hands in the air and ran, but the defendant opened fire seven times, striking the victim once in the back and damaging his heart and lung.
The victim was taken to Wyckoff Hospital, where he died.
Surveillance footage captured the defendant confronting and shooting the victim. Multiple witnesses identified the defendant as the shooter.
Paralegal Sarah Quashie, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Analyst Alexandra Aber and Senior Assistant District Attorney Jane Kim, of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit, assisted in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lauren Silver, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Andrea Orlando, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
