Brooklyn Man Who Allegedly Shot and Killed One Man, Injured Another, And Shot at Police Officers in Bedford-Stuyvesant Charged in 36-Count Indictment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 20, 2021
Brooklyn Man Who Allegedly Shot and Killed One Man, Injured Another, And Shot at Police Officers in Bedford-Stuyvesant Charged in 36-Count Indictment
Defendant Allegedly Fled from Homicide and When Confronted by Police Officers, Opened Fire
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder, attempted murder of a police officer and other charges for fatally shooting one man, shooting and injuring another man and then opening fire on three police officers a short time later – striking and injuring one officer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s allegedly brazen actions left an innocent man dead and two others injured, including a police officer, who fortunately was protected from more serious injuries by his bulletproof vest. We will now seek to bring this defendant to justice for allegedly shooting three individuals and endangering many others.
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Boyce Hayward, 26, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was arraigned virtually today from Brookdale University Hospital before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on a 36-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, first- and second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault, attempted aggravated assault on a police officer, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and related charges. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on July 13, 2021. He faces up to life in prison for his alleged actions.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 12, 2021, at approximately 11:11 p.m., at the corner of Madison Street and Broadway, in the confines of the 83rd Precinct, the defendant allegedly approached a vehicle stopped at a light and fired multiple shots into the vehicle, striking and killing Randall Roberts, 28, and seriously injuring another passenger.
Minutes later, at approximately 11:15 p.m., the defendant was observed walking along Howard Avenue, near Saratoga Park, between Halsey Street and Macon Street in the 83rd Precinct, about five blocks from where he had just shot and killed Randall Roberts.
Police Officers Brian McGurran, Matthew Perry and Sergeant Kevin Beasley, of the 81st Precinct, saw the defendant after they received information regarding the shooting at Madison Street and Broadway.
Police Officer McGurran walked towards the defendant, who immediately turned around and allegedly fired at the police officers multiple times. The police officers returned fire, including Officer McGurran, who was struck multiple times. The defendant was also struck.
Officer McGurran was shot in the upper back, buttocks and thigh. He was treated at Kings County Hospital and released. The defendant was struck in the buttocks. He was taken to Brookdale University Hospital.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Joseph Alexis, Chief of the Trial Division, and Senior District Attorney Robert P. Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
