Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Killing His Brother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, October 25, 2021
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in
Prison for Killing His Brother
Shot Victim Through Bedroom Door Inside Shared Apartment
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for fatally shooting his own brother inside their shared apartment in East New York, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This is a senseless and tragic case that destroyed a family – one brother is dead, and another is behind bars. The defendant admitted his guilt and will now have to live with the consequences of this terrible decision.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jahmorley Gayle, 36, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent DelGiudice to 15 years in prison and five years’ post release supervision following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter in September.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on April 22, 2018, at approximately 11:45 a.m., the defendant called 911 and initially told responding officers that someone killed his brother, Jahimel Gayle, 37, inside their East New York apartment. The victim’s lifeless body was found wedged against the bedroom door, which had a head-level bullet hole. He suffered a fatal wound to his neck.
Officers found a gun in the kitchen cabinet, which matched the ballistic evidence and contained the defendant’s DNA on the trigger and trigger guard. Despite the defendant’s initial claim that another person committed the murder, video surveillance showed that no one entered the apartment at the time of the crime and outer windows of the apartment were secured with bars. The defendant later made a statement admitting to killing his brother.
A forensic psychiatrist contradicted the defense claim that the defendant suffered from acute delusional disorder at the time of the murder and concluded that his actions stemmed from heavy cocaine use that led to cocaine induced psychotic disorder.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Robert Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
