Sheepshead Bay Man Pleads Guilty to Fatally Shooting Estranged Wife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 29, 2021
Sheepshead Bay Man Pleads Guilty to Fatally Shooting Estranged Wife
Admits to Assaulting Victim’s Cousin, Who Tried to Protect Her
To Be Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a man from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn has pleaded guilty to an indictment in which he is charged with the murder of his 30-year-old wife, who he physically assaulted and then shot in the head after tracking her down at a family reunion in Sea Gate, Brooklyn. He fled the scene and was apprehended in Delaware a week later.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This is a tragic case of domestic violence in which the mother of two young children was senselessly killed. The defendant has now accepted responsibility for his actions and will spend many years in prison as a result. My condolences go out to the family of Iveliss Alvarado, especially her children, for their tremendous loss.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gabino Genao, 34, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He pleaded guilty today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to second-degree murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, first-degree reckless endangerment and third-degree assault. He is expected to be sentenced to 20 years to life in prison on February 15, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 26, 2017 at about 11:15 p.m., in front of 2714 West 36th Street in Sea Gate, Brooklyn, the defendant shot his estranged wife, Iveliss Alvarado, multiple times in the head. The couple was not living together at the time and the victim was celebrating at a family reunion before she was fatally shot.
A cousin of the victim witnessed the defendant punching Ms. Alvarado and intervened to try to protect her. The cousin suffered bruises when the defendant punched her as well. The defendant then opened fire. After the shooting, the defendant was heard saying, “I killed her,” according to the investigation. He was apprehended in Delaware on June 2, 2017 and extradited to Brooklyn.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Michael Damico of the 60th Precinct Detective Squad.
The District Attorney thanked Senior Intelligence Analyst Eungee Hwang, of the Crime Strategies Unit, for her work on the case. Senior Intelligence Analyst Daniel Figlin of CSU, Homicide Paralegal Meghan Brancato, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Denise Pavlides assisted in the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andy Palacio, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
