Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications For Four-Week Virtual High School Internship Summer Program - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 20, 2021
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications
For Four-Week Virtual High School Internship Summer Program
Internships Will Offer Insight into Criminal Justice System, Public Service and the Law
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of the application process for high school juniors and seniors interested in participating in a four-week virtual summer internship program. The summer internship is open to students who live and/or attend high school in Brooklyn and are interested in learning about the different careers and roles of various participants within the criminal justice system. This year’s summer internship will run from July 6 to July 30, 2021.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Our goal every year is to provide interns with an understanding of how the criminal justice system operates and how my office works to keep Brooklyn safe and strengthen community trust. We are proud to be able to offer an opportunity for high school students to gain invaluable experience as to how criminal cases develop, from the steps taken to investigate and build a case, to how cases are handled in court. The interns will be exposed to many different career opportunities available in the criminal justice system, as they consider their future professional goals.”
Selected students will be assigned to one of the many specialized units within the DA’s Office, while also getting an overview of the criminal justice system. They can expect to assist with research and analysis; help prosecutors to prepare for trial; work on discovery; carry out file maintenance and organization of legal documents; participate in Trial Zone workshops; and observe criminal proceedings, including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
During the four-week internship, participants will receive a $150 weekly stipend. Internship hours will be Monday to Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Interested applicants must submit their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume and a 300-word typed essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and how the internship will impact their future career goals.
To apply, please visit:
http://apply.brooklynda.org
beginning Tuesday, April 20, 2021, to upload transcript, essay and resume. All application materials must be received no later than Tuesday, May 25, 2021. For questions or assistance please contact (718) 250-3191 or email hsinternships@brooklynda.org.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
