Serial Burglar Sentenced to up to 12 Years in Prison for Three Break-ins of Brooklyn Apartments - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 30, 2021
Serial Burglar Sentenced to up to 12 Years in Prison for
Three Break-ins of Brooklyn Apartments
Stole Jewelry, Electronics and Other Items When Owners Weren’t Home
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Staten Island man has been sentenced to six to 12 years in prison for a string of residential burglaries of empty Brooklyn apartments.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is a serial burglar who has shown that he will continue to invade the sanctity of people’s homes if he remains at large, necessitating this prison sentence. My Office is committed to protecting the safety and property of everyone living in Brooklyn and will continue to prosecute those who victimize our neighbors.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Casey Knight, 53, of Staten Island. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht to three consecutive prison terms of two to four years, for a total of six to 12 years, following his guilty plea earlier this month to three counts of third-degree burglary.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 24, 2018 at approximately 10:10 p.m., a man returned to his Sudyam Street home in Bushwick and heard noises from the basement. He then saw the suspect run out through a cellar door. Two laptops were missing, and video surveillance captured the defendant entering the residence through the cellar door.
On October 26, 2018, at about 5:47 p.m., according to the evidence, a woman was alerted that the alarm at her Lafayette Avenue home in Bedford-Stuyvesant has been activated. About $13,000 worth of jewelry was missing from her roommate’s bedroom and video surveillance captured the defendant break a windowpane of a door and enter the apartment.
Finally, a man who left for vacation on October 31, 2018 returned to his Clifton Place apartment in Clinton Hill on November 4, 2018 to find various electronics, a bicycle and a guitar missing. Fingerprints lifted from the living room matched the defendant.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Jonathan Hutchinson, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Robert Walsh, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
