Brooklyn Man Charged in 52-Count Indictment in Seven Separate Attacks on Women in East Williamsburg, Including at Morgan Avenue Subway Station - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 24, 2021
Brooklyn Man Charged in 52-Count Indictment in Seven Separate Attacks on Women in East Williamsburg, Including at Morgan Avenue Subway Station
Defendant Indicted on Hate Crime Charges for Allegedly Targeting Light-Skinned Women
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that an East Williamsburg man has been indicted on numerous charges of assault, strangulation and burglary as hate crimes and other charges for allegedly attacking seven women in East Williamsburg, allegedly selecting his victims based on their gender and skin color.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged violent and unprovoked attacks endangered the women he targeted and caused widespread fear in the community. I am committed to prosecuting all hate crimes where victims, including as alleged in this case, are targeted because of their gender, skin color or race.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Khari Covington, 29, who resides in an East Williamsburg transitional housing center. The defendant was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on a 52-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree burglary as a hate crime, second-degree strangulation as a hate crime, third-degree assault as a hate crime, third-degree menacing as a hate crime and other related charges. His bail was continued at $150,000. The defendant, who’s considered a mandatory violent persistent felony offender, faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted. He was ordered to return to court on April 13, 2021.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between August 5, 2020 and January 4, 2021, the defendant allegedly assaulted seven women, whom he targeted because they were women and light-skinned, according to his statements to investigators.
The incidents charged in the indictment include the following:
An assault on August 5, 2020 at approximately 9:45 a.m., inside 20 Morgan Avenue.
An assault on November 17, 2020, at approximately 8 p.m., inside the Morgan Avenue train station.
An assault on December 11, 2020 at approximately 9:15 p.m. at the Morgan Avenue train station.
An assault on December 28, 2020, at approximately 5 p.m., inside the Morgan Avenue train station.
An assault on January 1, 2021, at approximately 8:35 p.m., inside the Morgan Avenue train station.
An assault on January 2, 2021, at approximately 9:50 p.m., inside the Morgan Avenue train station.
An assault on January 4, 2021, at approximately 5:10 p.m., inside a smoke shop located at 12 Wilson Avenue.
Paralegal Michael Chung of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau assisted in the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Adriana Rodriguez and Assistant District Attorney Sharmalee Brooks-Gordon, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli Muse, Chief of the Hate Crimes Bureau.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
