Flatlands Man Indicted for Murder and Attempted Murder for Shooting Two Men, One Fatally, During Argument at Brooklyn Barbeque - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 8, 2021
Flatlands Man Indicted for Murder and Attempted Murder for Shooting
Two Men, One Fatally, During Argument at Brooklyn Barbeque
Defendant Fled the Scene, Was Arrested Months Later
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatlands man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder, attempted murder, assault and other charges for the shooting death of one man and injuring another man during a backyard barbecue in East Flatbush last May.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “It is alleged that a verbal dispute tragically escalated and caused this defendant to inexplicably pull out a handgun at a large gathering and shoot two people, one fatally, while endangering many others. We will now seek to bring him to justice for these alleged actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kevin Phillips, 40, of Flatlands, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Guidice on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second-degree assault, first-degree attempted assault, first-degree reckless endangerment and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on February 8, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 17, 2021, at approximately 12:21 a.m., the defendant was at a barbecue in the rear yard of a house in East Flatbush when he bumped into a 31-year-old man. An argument between them and a third man, Miles Bobb-Semple, also 31, began and the defendant allegedly pulled out a gun and shot the two men.
Bobb-Semple suffered a gunshot wound to the chest and died at Kings County Hospital. The other victim sustained three gunshot wounds – one to each leg and a graze wound to the shoulder and was hospitalized.
The defendant fled the scene and was apprehended on October 4, 2021 in East Flatbush by a New York City Police Detective assigned to the Fugitive Apprehension Task Force.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel M. Murphy of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
