Brooklyn Man Indicted for Vehicular Manslaughter and Leaving the Scene for Fatal Hit and Run Crash - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 27, 2021
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Vehicular Manslaughter and
Leaving the Scene for Fatal Hit and Run Crash
Allegedly Drove Drunk and Struck Pedestrian in Crosswalk, Left the Scene and
Destroyed Evidence by Repairing Vehicle’s Windshield and Body
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been indicted for reckless manslaughter, vehicular manslaughter, leaving the scene of an incident without reporting, and driving while intoxicated, tampering with evidence and additional charges in connection with a fatal hit and run collision that killed a 47-year-old man from Staten Island in 2019.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “An extensive and lengthy investigation into this tragic crash revealed the extent of this defendant’s illegal actions. He allegedly drove drunk, fatally struck a man crossing a Brooklyn road, drove away without stopping or offering help and then disposed of evidence and covered up damage to his car. We will now seek to hold him accountable for this dangerous and criminal conduct. My Street Safety Bureau continues to fully investigate all cases of vehicular violence to provide justice to victims and to help improve safety on our roadways.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ramsaran Mahabeersingh, 57, of Cypress Hills, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo on an 18-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree manslaughter, second-degree vehicular manslaughter, leaving the scene of an incident, driving while intoxicated, tampering with evidence and related charges. He faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the top count. Bail was set at $500,000 cash or $1,000,000 bond and he was ordered to return to court on November 18, 2021.
The District Attorney said that on September 22, 2019, the defendant left a bar he owns, Cross Bay Sports Bar in Ozone Park, while allegedly drunk, according to multiple witnesses. He entered a black 2009 Nissan Murano and drove it home. At approximately 3:13 a.m., the defendant allegedly struck the victim, 47-year-old Antonio Gonzalez, of Staten Island, as he started to cross North Conduit Boulevard near Crescent Street in Cypress Hills. The victim, a married father of three who worked as a maintenance worker in Manhattan, died at the scene.
A series of videos captured the defendant entering his vehicle and driving it to the location of the crash, going approximately 45 mph in a 30-mph zone, and then towards his home. He then struck another vehicle and a piece of his car fell off and was later recovered. Two days later, the defendant was observed throwing car paint and boxes of car parts into the garbage. The investigation further revealed that a repairman replaced the Murano’s windshield in the defendant’s driveway and that the windshield had damage consistent with striking a person and contained traces of the victim’s DNA. Finally, the vehicle allegedly underwent recent body work, according to the evidence.
The case was investigated by Detective Konstantin Genin of the NYPD Collision Investigation Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Jacob Uriel, Deputy Unit Chief the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Craig Esswein, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
