Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Launches Art Contest “Illustrate Against Hate” for Middle and High School Students - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 29, 2021
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Launches Art Contest
“Illustrate Against Hate” for Middle and High School Students
Accepting Original Artworks Expressing That Hate Crimes are Immoral and Intolerable;
Cash Prizes of up to $1000 for Winner of Each Grade
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the launch of a unique art contest, “Illustrate Against Hate,” that’s open to all New York City students from grades 7
th
through 12
th
. Cash prizes, partially donated by the New York City Police Foundation, are offered in the amounts of $1000 for first place, $500 for second place and $250 for third place for each grade.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Fighting against hate crimes includes helping educate young people about the irreparable harms they cause and must be an all-out effort that engages every aspect of our society. That’s why I am so proud to partner with the New York City Police Foundation on this exciting and engaging contest that allows our students the opportunity to express themselves through art and convey why hate crimes are abhorrent and can never be tolerated. Whether participating students have been victims of bias-motivated offenses, know friends who were, or choose to stand in solidarity with those who’ve been harmed – I hope this competition will give them a medium to educate each other and all of us on this important topic.”
Students should send photos of their original artwork in JPEG or MP4 formats to
illustrateagainsthate@brooklynda.org
(no scanned reproductions will be accepted). Submissions should include the student’s full name, grade, age, school and an explanation in 50 characters or less about the submission and why hate crimes are wrong. Permissible mediums include photography, watercolor, acrylic, oil, wood, clay, metal, plaster, pastel, charcoal, collage, pencil, computer graphic art and silk screen. All submissions are due by May 14, 2021.
The artwork will be judged on originality, quality, technique and theme by a panel of judges. Winners will be announced during the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office’s Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month Celebration on May 20, 2021, which will be streamed on the Brooklyn DA’s office website and social media.
The District Attorney thanked the New York City Police Foundation for their generous contribution of prize money, and the New York City Department of Education for their partnership.
The contest is being coordinated by the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli Muse, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
