Fourteen Alleged Members of “Babiiez” Gang Charged in 81-Count Conspiracy Indictment That Includes 11 Shootings - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, July 1, 2021
Fourteen Alleged Members of “Babiiez” Gang Charged in 81-Count
Conspiracy Indictment That Includes 11 Shootings
Flatbush-based Gang is Alleged Subset of Insane Crip Gangsta
Nine Handguns Were Recovered During the Course of the Investigation
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea, today announced that 14 alleged members of the Babiiez street gang are variously charged in an 81-count indictment with conspiracy to commit murder, possess weapons and related charges. The indictment includes charges related to 11 shootings that resulted in eight victims – six of whom were alleged rival gang members and two men who were not rivals.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “It is disturbing that young people in our communities are engaged in the type of brazen and senseless gun violence described in this indictment. Taking shooters off the streets has been a focus of my office and the NYPD, and long-term investigations such as this are making a real impact in restoring safety and driving down violence across Brooklyn. We will continue to target the drivers of crime and incapacitate street crews that disregard the life and safety of others.”
Commissioner Shea said, “Our investigation zeroed in on the upper echelons of this street organization. Our case focused on the violent street crime that has too often shattered life for those who live and work in our Brooklyn neighborhoods. And by pursuing these kinds of cases together, our NYPD detectives and prosecutors in the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, are working every day to reduce this kind of violence in the weeks and months ahead.”
The defendants will be arraigned this afternoon before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Miriam Cyrulnik on an 81-count indictment in which they are variously charged with first-, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree robbery, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, second-degree assault, fourth-degree grand larceny, first-degree reckless endangerment, fourth-degree criminal facilitation, and false personation.
The District Attorney said the indictment is the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division into the violence allegedly committed by members and associates of the Insane Crip Gangsta (ICG) street gang, which is primarily based within the confines of the 70
th
Precinct. The investigation specifically focused on a subset of ICG called the Babiiez, named for younger ICG gang members who ranged in age from 15 to 21 years old during the course of the conspiracy.
It is alleged that many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Furthermore, it is alleged that the defendants boasted about their criminal actions on social media, directing acts of violence and taking credit for shootings. Finally, it is alleged, the defendants can be heard on recorded Rikers Island jail phone calls discussing violent acts, discussing the possibility of being indicted, discussing how to hold a gun, and boasting about its street dominance.
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, ICG/Babiiez territory encompasses the Flatbush area, specifically East 21
st
Street. The buildings located at 131-141 East 21
st
Street are attached six-story red brick apartment buildings located on the east side of East 21
st
Street between Church and Caton Avenues. The buildings are allegedly referred to as “The Castle” by the defendants and their associates and are believed to be their hub – where they congregated before and after a number shootings charged in the indictment.
It is alleged that between May 24, 2019 and the date of this indictment, the Babiiez and associates from the Bergen Fam gang, with whom they have an alliance, committed multiple shootings and acts of violence against rival gang members or within rival gang territory to maintain dominance over their geographical territory, maintain supremacy over rivals, and to retaliate against taunts and teasing on social media over the death of a former ICG member.
It is alleged that Babiiez members committed 11 shootings during the course of the conspiracy, including the following:
It is alleged that on June 30, 2020, defendants Tristian Williams and Timothy Spence left “The Castle” and walked to 50 East 18
th
Street in the 70
th
Precinct, which is rival 8 Trey gang territory at approximately 7:05 p.m. Williams is then allegedly seen on surveillance video firing several shots at a group of men standing in front of the building, striking an alleged 8 Trey gang associate in the leg. Williams and Spence are then captured on surveillance video fleeing the scene.
It is alleged that also on June 30, 2020, shortly after the shooting at 50 East 18
th
Street, a group of approximately 10 men, including Williams and Spence, were hanging out in front of “The Castle” when shots were fired at the group, and they ran into the building to escape. Spence is then allegedly seen on surveillance video giving a firearm to Jahmaree Dublin. Spence, Williams, Dublin and five others then walk to Bedford Avenue and Eastern Parkway where video surveillance shows a man, who is not a rival, exiting a vehicle. Dublin allegedly approaches the man from behind and shoots him, striking him in the leg.
[This incident is depicted in a video that can be viewed
here
.]
It is alleged that on July 26, 2020, at approximately 8 p.m., in front of 156 Madison Street, defendants Amath Kebe, Malik Harry and Kymani Salkey were riding in a vehicle in opposition territory, i.e., the territory of the rival Structure Gang, when they allegedly spotted a member of that rival gang. Surveillance video shows a set of arms extended out from the front passenger side window and rear passenger side window firing shots at the victim, who was struck in the leg. Additional surveillance video tracks the vehicle to Bergen Street and allegedly shows Kebe exiting from the rear passenger side, Salkey exiting from the front passenger side and Harry exiting from the driver’s side.
[The shooting is depicted in a video that can be viewed
here
.]
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective John Davis and Detective Steven Souffrin, of the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division, under the supervision of Sergeant Andrew Dunton, also of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, and the overall supervision of Inspector Jason Savino, Commanding Officer of the Gun Violence Suppression Division.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Jhounelle Cunningham and Janesse Dawson and Assistant District Attorney Stephanie Pak, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, Bureau Chief.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
Tristian Williams, 19, of East New York, Brooklyn.
Jaden Occean, 18, of Prospect Lefferts Gardens, Brooklyn.
Timothy Spence, 17, of Flatbush, Brooklyn.
Moustapha Diop, 19, of Flatbush, Brooklyn.
Jahmaree Dublin, 19, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn.
Malik Bacchus, 19, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Kymani Salkey, 18, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Amath Kebe, 18, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn.
Jarell Swan, 18, of Clinton Hill, Brooklyn.
Darius Omotunde, 19, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Abu Gaye, 19, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Bobby Thomas, 20, of East New York, Brooklyn.
Malik Harry, 21, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Krisaiya Blount, 16, East New York, Brooklyn.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
