Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder and Assault for Shooting Two Innocent Bystanders - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 18, 2021
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder and Assault for Shooting Two Innocent Bystanders
Shooting Left 11-Year-Old Boy Paralyzed; Second Victim Was Shot in Leg
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 10 years in prison for opening fire on a crowded Crown Heights street, striking an 11-year-old boy in the chest, leaving him paralyzed from the waist down, and striking a 31-year-old man in the knee.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Two innocent people were shot by this defendant who opened fire on a crowded street endangering those going about their everyday lives. A young boy was left paralyzed. There is no place for this type of gun violence on the streets of Brooklyn and I am committed to keeping shooters such as this defendant out of our communities.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Angel Eaddy, 30, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He pleaded guilty to second-degree assault and first-degree attempted murder on June 22, 2021 before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun, who promised him a 10-year sentence and five years of post-release supervision in exchange for his guilty plea. The judge imposed the sentence today.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 20, 2019, at approximately 7 p.m., on Schenectady Avenue, near St. Johns Place, the defendant fired a handgun six times, striking an 11-year-old boy in the chest, paralyzing him, and striking a 31-year-old man in the knee. The shooting was captured on surveillance video.
The defendant, a reputed gang member, was firing at a rival gang member when he struck the innocent bystanders.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lana Schlesinger, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief .
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
