Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Sexually Assaulting Two Female Relatives - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 11, 2021
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him
With Sexually Assaulting Two Female Relatives
Defendant Was Extradited from Israel After Fleeing U.S. in 2010
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man who fled to Israel in 2010 to allegedly escape charges that he repeatedly sexually assaulted two young relatives has been returned to Brooklyn. He was arraigned today on an indictment in which he is charged with course of sexual conduct against a child, criminal sexual act and sexual abuse.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant tried to escape justice by fleeing our jurisdiction. Today’s arraignment on these serious charges is our first step to bringing him to justice for this alleged terrible betrayal of trust. There is no place in our society for this type of predatory behavior, and I am committed to prosecuting cases such as this despite lengthy extradition proceedings.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gershon Kranczer, 65, of Midwood, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglas on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree course of sexual conduct against a child, second-degree criminal sexual act and second-degree sexual abuse. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on March 22, 2021.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on multiple occasions from August 1996 to February 2003, in Midwood, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly sexually assaulted a child from the time she was six years old to 13 years old. He allegedly sexually abused a second child between March 2001 and September 2002 when she was approximately 11 years old.
The defendant fled to Israel in November 2010 to allegedly escape prosecution. He was returned to New York today by the United States Marshals Service.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Detective Steve Litwin, formerly assigned to the Brooklyn Special Victims Squad and currently assigned to the Cold Case Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Connie Solimeo, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
