Two Alleged Hoolie Gang Members Charged in Murder of One-Year-Old Davell Gardner in Bedford-Stuyvesant Shooting Last July - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 6, 2021
Two Alleged Hoolie Gang Members Charged in Murder of One-Year-Old
Davell Gardner in Bedford-Stuyvesant Shooting Last July;
Total of 18 Defendants Named in 63-Count Indictment Which Includes Four Homicides and Eight Non-Fatal Shootings
Defendants Were Allegedly Engaged in Gang War with Rival 900 Street Gang, Whose Members Were Subject of Earlier Takedown in January; Seven Shooting Victims Were Innocent
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea, today announced that 18 alleged members of the Hoolie street gang are variously charged in a 63-count indictment with murder, conspiracy to commit murder and to possess weapons, attempted murder and related charges. Among the four homicides charged in the indictment is the shooting death of Davell Gardner, who was just 22 months old, during a cookout in Bedford-Stuyvesant last summer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Insidious gang violence as we allege in this case has taken and traumatized far too many lives, including many innocents such as Davell Gardner – a bright and loved baby boy with his whole life ahead of him. Today’s indictment of these alleged Hoolies gang members is the second part of a larger investigation that saw 19 of their rival 900 gang members indicted in January for violent crimes, including some who were charged with multiple shootings and murder. I am committed to working with the New York City Police Department to focus on the most violent offenders who we allege drive most of the violent crime in Brooklyn to keep our communities safe and bring justice to the many victims who they have harmed.”
Commissioner Shea said, “These defendants, by their alleged actions, were willing to kill rivals or even fellow gang members and do so without regard for innocent people caught in the crossfire. In one case, the victim was a one-year-old boy, Davell Gardner. This violence has to stop and cases like these are only made more solid when NYPD detectives and Assistant District Attorneys work hand-in-glove to build them from the beginning.”
The District Attorney said that 11 of the defendants were arrested yesterday and six were already in custody on other charges. One remains at large. Seven were arraigned before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun yesterday and one will be arraigned today. The rest of the defendants will be arraigned at a later date. The defendants are variously charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, first- and second-degree assault, first-degree attempted assault, first-degree reckless endangerment and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. Ten of the defendants are charged with second- degree murder and face up to 25 years to life in prison. (See defendant addendum).
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, the defendants are allegedly members of a violent street gang known as Hoolies, primarily based in and around the Roosevelt Housing Development in Bedford-Stuyvesant. They are made up of members who also affiliate with several Blood, Crip and Folk gang sets, such as the MackBallers, Blood Stone Villains, Bloodhound Brims, Grape Street Crips, 823 Crips and Gangster Disciple Folk.
It is alleged that the reason for Hoolies to commit acts of violence include retaliation against rival gangs and to display the gang’s strength.
It is alleged that between May 2018 and today, the Hoolies territory included 721 Willoughby Avenue and 303 Vernon Avenue, as well as the New York City Housing Authority Roosevelt Houses development and the surrounding area from Kosciuszko Street to Pulaski Street in between Marcus Garvey Boulevard to Stuyvesant Avenue.
It is alleged that Hoolies member, during the course of the investigation, committed four murders, as well as eight non-fatal shootings involving nine victims. Of the 13 victims, seven were innocent people who were not rivals of the defendants. Among the incidents were the following:
December 4 & 5, 2018:
Alleged Hoolie members Jahlil Grant, Akeem Artis and Oras Howard were shot at in Hoolie territory, allegedly by 900 member Jamel Gordon and another individual. Grant was killed and Artis was wounded. Howard was not struck. This allegedly set off a chain of retaliatory shootings by Hoolie members to avenge the death of Grant and shooting of Artis, including the 7:22 p.m. shooting of an innocent bystander, allegedly by Rasheen Parnell, at the intersection of Ralph Avenue and Bainbridge Street. That victim, a 23-year-old man, suffered four bullet wounds to the left torso, back of upper leg and groin and was left paralyzed.
At approximately 10:17 p.m., Tyree Walker, 35, who was not a rival, walked towards the front entrance to his home at 997 Myrtle Avenue and was shot multiple times in his torso, allegedly by Travis Scott, and died.
On December 5, 2018, at approximately 12:40 a.m., on Dean Street, near the entrance to the Kingsborough Houses, another innocent bystander, a 43-year-old man, was shot in the chest and survived.
March 3, 2020:
At approximately 12:16 a.m., Dashawn Austin and Jayquan Lane entered the Kinanm Lounge on Atlantic Avenue where alleged gang rival Janile Whitted was also in attendance. It is alleged that Austin and Lane left the lounge, and shortly thereafter tracked Whitted when he left the lounge, following him to Amour Cabaret, a few blocks away on Nostrand Avenue. As Whitted socialized outside the club, at approximately 3:10 a.m., Austin allegedly walked through the crowd, and fired several shots into Whitted’s chest at close range. He was taken to Kings County Hospital where he later died.
July 12, 2020:
At approximately 11:15 p.m. a three-car caravan (Mercedes, Audi and Volkswagen) was observed lining up in front of 365 Pulaski Street; such caravans are known as a “blocker” car, a “chase” car and a “shooter” car. Dashawn Austin was seen entering the passenger side of the Audi with Akeem Artis in the driver’s seat. The caravan was spotted by a police car, which activated its lights. The Volkswagen then sped away at a high rate of speed to draw the police away from the shooter car. The Mercedes and the Audi turned on to Madison Street, near a park where there was a cookout, then circled the block and returned moments later. The cars parked, and, it is alleged, Dashawn Austin and a second shooter, fired into a group of people attending the cookout. Four people were shot, including Davell Gardner, who later died. The other victims, all innocent bystanders, survived.
September 1, 2020:
At approximately 10:20 p.m., Freedom Williams and Lamore Weems entered a bodega at 147 Park Avenue. Alleged 900 gang rival member Tavon Parker pulled up to the bodega shortly thereafter and entered while Williams and Weems were inside. Parker purchased a beverage then left and returned to his car. It is alleged that Williams then fired three shots into the front driver’s side window, striking Parker in the head. Parker died of his injuries on September 4, 2020.
The indictment also charges the following shooting incidents that did not result in death:
The May 15, 2018 non-fatal shooting of an alleged 900 gang member in the courtyard of the Marcy Houses. The victim was shot multiple times at close range.
The non-fatal shooting of an individual who was not a gang rival on March 23, 2019, in the vicinity of 65 Tompkins Avenue. The victim was shot in the arm.
The April 4, 2020 non-fatal shooting of an individual who was shot in the back while riding a bicycle on Throop Avenue in 900 territory.
The August 8, 2020 non-fatal shooting on Pulaski Street, in Hoolie territory, into the vehicle of an alleged 900 member.
During the course of the conspiracy, it is alleged, incarcerated Hoolies members communicated with non-incarcerated members in jail phone calls to keep up to date on the status of members or to discuss violent acts. The defendants also allegedly used social media platforms including Facebook and Instagram to demonstrate their gang membership and to broadcast gang activity. They allegedly also posted music videos to YouTube containing song lyrics referencing the status of rivalries and referring to acts of violence committed by gang members.
The Hoolies investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Douglas Rome and Detective Michael Algieri of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, under the supervision of Sergeant Scott McKenna and Sergeant Andrew Dunton, and the overall supervision of Inspector Jason Savino.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Thomas Teplitsky, Joy Kieras and James Slattery of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorneys Leila Rosini and Jen Cilia, Deputy Bureau Chiefs, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, Bureau Chief, together with Assistant District Attorney Howard Jackson, Deputy Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
Travis Scott, 33, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Jerome Noble, 33, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Oras Howard, 26, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Kenneth Hyatt, 29, of Brownsville.
Brandon Lee, 25, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Rasheen Parnell, 27, of Bushwick.
Jerry Washington, 21, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Jamel Bleach, 33, of Stuyvesant Heights.
Dashawn Austin, 25, of Canarsie.
Devine Moore, 25, of Sunset Park.
Jayquan Lane, 28, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Dominick Scott, 28, of (not available).
Akeem Artis, 24, of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Freedom Williams, 27, of East New York.
Michael Parnell, 19, of Bushwick.
Lamore Weems, 23, of East New York.
Unique Newell, 21, of East New York.
Jonathan Arroyo, 29, of Stuyvesant Heights.
Note: Materials displayed in the press conference can be viewed
here
(password: Hoolies)
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
