Driver Who Allegedly Blew a Red Light While Speeding, Seriously Injuring a Brooklyn Woman, Indicted for Assault and Reckless Endangerment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 2, 2021
Driver Who Allegedly Blew a Red Light While Speeding, Seriously Injuring a Brooklyn Woman,
Indicted for Assault and Reckless Endangerment
Drove over 70 mph in a Residential Roadway and T-Boned Livery Cab;
Posted Videos Showing Reckless Driving in the Same Vehicle
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 22-year-old man has been indicted for assault, reckless endangerment and other charges for allegedly causing a car crash that seriously injured a Brooklyn mother of six. A dashboard camera captured the driver allegedly running a red light at a Bedford-Stuyvesant intersection and colliding with a livery cab that carried the 32-year-old victim.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant chose to drive his car in a highly dangerous and reckless manner, allegedly speeding and ignoring a traffic light, and caused a devastating crash that nearly killed a beloved mother. We believe this was not an aberration – videos he allegedly posted online show him driving the same vehicle in an extremely reckless fashion. We will not allow drivers to treat our roads like racetracks and act with complete disregard for the lives of others. Such behavior is criminal and will be prosecuted in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jalen Ryan Ortiz, 22, of Middletown, New York. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Laura Johnson on an indictment in which he is charged with second- and third-degree assault, second-degree reckless endangerment, reckless driving, speeding and running a red light. The defendant was ordered to be on supervised release and to return to court on April 20, 2021. His driver’s license was suspended, and he faces a maximum sentence of seven years in prison if convicted of the top count with which he is charged.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on November 30, 2020, at approximately 12:24 a.m., the defendant was driving his Dodge Charger 392, which was painted with the theme of the movie “Scream” and had the license plate number SCR3AM, northbound on Bedford Avenue. Video from the car’s dashboard camera shows the defendant allegedly driving aggressively and at a high rate of speed for several blocks as he approached Dekalb Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Blackbox data indicates that he was travelling at 77 mph and the gas pedal was pressed all the way down approximately one second prior to the collision, the investigation found.
The evidence shows that at the intersection of Dekalb and Bedford Avenues, the defendant ran through a steady red light and broadsided a livery cab. A 32-year-old passenger who was seated in the back seat was ejected through a side window and suffered traumatic brain injury, a lacerated spleen, several fractures to her spine and ribs, a broken clavicle, and a subarachnoid hemorrhage. She was hospitalized for approximately two months.
After broadsiding the livery cab, the defendant then crashed into a row of cars that were parked on Bedford Avenue. The cab driver and the defendant both suffered minor injuries.
Videos that were posted on the defendant’s Instagram account show him driving the same vehicle at a fast rate of speed and performing reckless car tricks in residential streets.
Senior Assistant District Attorney Jacob Uriel of the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau assisted in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Robert Walsh, former Chief of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau and Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, also of the Blue Zone.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
