Two Brooklyn Men Indicted for Attempted Murder as a Hate Crime For Alleged Unprovoked Anti-Gay Attack - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 22, 2021
Two Brooklyn Men Indicted for Attempted Murder as a Hate Crime
For Alleged Unprovoked Anti-Gay Attack
Victims Were Shopping in Bodega when Defendants Allegedly Shouted Homophobic Slurs,
Violently Attacked and Stabbed Each of the Two Victims
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two men have been indicted for attempted murder as a hate crime and other charges in connection with an alleged anti-gay attack against two men at a Bushwick bodega. Both victims were assaulted and stabbed and suffered numerous injuries, including collapsed lungs.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The two victims in this case suffered serious and life-threatening injuries in a completely unprovoked attack. The defendants’ actions were particularly egregious as they allegedly attacked two innocent people because they believed them to be gay. No one should be targeted because of their race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, or religion. We must all be able to safely walk the streets of our city without fear of being senselessly attacked.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Christopher Clemente, 37, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and Jonathan Carter, 31, of Ocean Hill, Brooklyn. Carter was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on a 26-count indictment in which both are variously charged with second-degree attempted murder as a hate crime, second-degree attempted murder, first-degree attempted assault as a hate crime, first-degree attempted assault, second-degree assault as a hate crime, and related charges. His bail was set at $10,000 and he was ordered to return to court on December 10, 2021. Clemente, who’s being held on $150,000 cash bail or $100,000 bond, will be arraigned next week.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, at approximately 2:10 a.m., on September 4, 2021, inside of a bodega located at 1559 Broadway in Bushwick, the victims, a 36-year-old man and a 29-year-old man, were waiting for food when the defendants both made a series of homophobic slurs directed at the victims.
Clemente then allegedly repeatedly punched the 36-year-old man in the face and Carter then allegedly repeatedly struck him about the head and body with a glass liquor bottle, causing him to fall to the floor. Furthermore, it is alleged, Clemente then repeatedly stabbed the 36-year-old in the head and body.
Finally, it is alleged, Clemente and an unapprehended man chased after the 29-year-old victim, grabbing him, and Clemente repeatedly stabbed the younger man while making homophobic slurs.
The older victim suffered multiple stab wounds to his body, including head, buttocks and lung, causing a collapsed left lung.
The younger victim suffered multiple stab wounds to his body, including neck and lungs, causing both lungs to collapse.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Samantha Perlstein, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
