Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Rape of Three Women - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, March 15, 2021
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Rape of Three Women
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Attacking the Victims in 2019 and 2020
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Canarsie man has been sentenced to 18 years in prison for raping three women, in separate incidents, in his car after physically assaulting them, causing two victims to lose consciousness.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I am committed to seeking justice for all victims of sexual violence in Brooklyn. With today’s sentencing this defendant, who repeatedly preyed on vulnerable women and continued his violent behavior even after getting arrested, has now been held accountable for his actions. Our communities are safer now that this defendant has been taken off our streets.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ayindee Boyce, 25, of Canarsie, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 18 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dineen Riviezzo. The defendant, who pleaded guilty to three counts of first-degree rape on February 17, 2021, must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 3, 2019, at approximately 1:30 a.m., the defendant pulled up to a 21-year-old woman in East New York and asked her if she wanted to “chill.” After the victim got into his car he drove to Canarsie, where he asked the woman to get into the backseat of his car so he could look for something. He then offered her $20 for what she believed would be a sex act, and she told him it was not enough. When she tried to get out of the car, the defendant applied pressure to her neck and raped her. When she managed to open the car door, he slammed it shut and threatened to kill her. He then drove a short distance away and let her out of the car. She immediately reported the attack to police officers she spotted on the street. She was taken to a hospital and a sexual assault evidence collection kit was performed.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, on September 15, 2019, the defendant picked up a 24-year-old woman he met once before, drove her to a driveway in Canarsie, and told her to get in the backseat. He also got in the backseat, pushed her down and applied pressure to her neck and raped her. At one point the victim managed to escape through an open car door window and ran down the street, with the defendant chasing after her. He continued to strangle her and hit her on the head. The attack was interrupted by a Good Samaritan who called 911. Police responded and the victim was taken to a hospital where a sexual assault evidence collection kit was performed. On September 24, 2019, the defendant, whose name was known to the victim, was arrested by the police. He consented to give a DNA sample, which came back as a match for the August 3, 2019 incident.
Finally, early on September 14, 2020, while out on bail that he posted in June 2020, the defendant pulled up to a 26-year-old woman in East New York and offered her $100 for sex. The woman agreed and got in the car. After driving a short distance, the defendant demanded oral sex. When the victim asked for the money first, the defendant applied pressure to her neck, causing her to lose consciousness. He then raped her and repeatedly threatened to kill her. He then forced her out of the car and kept her purse. She called 911 and was taken to a hospital where a sexual assault evidence collection kit was performed. A DNA hit subsequently linked the defendant to the incident. He was arrested again on December 2, 2020 and remanded without bail.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Michael Zebrowski, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
