Staten Island Teen Indicted for Assault as a Hate Crime for Allegedly Attacking Jewish Man in Williamsburg - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 2, 2022
Staten Island Teen Indicted for Assault as a Hate Crime for
Allegedly Attacking Jewish Man in Williamsburg
Victim Assaulted as He Walked to Synagogue
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a teenager has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with assault as a hate crime and other related offenses in connection with an unprovoked attack against a Jewish man in Williamsburg. The victim was walking to a synagogue and wearing traditional Hasidic attire when the attack occurred.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Without warning or provocation, this defendant allegedly assaulted an innocent man simply because of his Jewish faith. Crimes that target individuals because of their religion, race, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation are a threat to everything we stand for here in Brooklyn. We will now seek to hold the defendant accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Logan Jones, 18, of Staten Island. He was arraigned yesterday before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with third-degree assault as a hate crime, third degree assault, third-degree menacing as a hate crime, third-degree menacing, third-degree attempted assault as a hate crime, third-degree attempted assault, and second-degree harassment. Bail was set at $30,000 and the defendant was ordered to return to court on June 24, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 1, 2022, at approximately 7:55 p.m., at 58 Gerry Street, the defendant and a group of five individuals allegedly approached the victim, 21, and his wife, as they walked to Shabbat services at their local synagogue. The defendant allegedly suddenly began punching the victim in the face. The defendant and two of the other individuals are alleged to have then repeatedly kicked the victim as he fell to the ground and tried to escape by sliding underneath a truck parked in the street.
According to the investigation, the defendant and the five other individuals allegedly fled the scene after the victim’s wife asked a bystander to call 911. The victim suffered severe head and body pain, an abrasion to the cheek, as well as bruising to the face and mouth.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Katherine Gardzalla of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Chief of the Hate Crimes Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
