Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years in Prison for Shooting a FedEx Driver in the Back at Point Blank Range - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, June 27, 2022
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 40 Years in Prison for
Shooting a FedEx Driver in the Back at Point Blank Range
Attempted Murder in Brownsville Housing Development Was Captured on Video
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 40 years in prison for shooting a FedEx employee in the back as he walked out of a Brownsville building. The incident was caught on surveillance video.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant has a long and violent criminal history, and the people of Brooklyn are safer with him in prison. While we believe in second chances, we have no tolerance for callous gun violence, and I hope this sentence allows the victim some solace.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as J’von Johnson, 25, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht to 40 years in state prison following his conviction last month on charges of second-degree attempted murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on December 7, 2020, at 395 Livonia Avenue, which is part of the Van Dyke Housing Development, at approximately 11:15 a.m., the defendant fired a handgun from close range at a uniformed FedEx employee who was leaving the building. The bullet entered the victim’s right shoulder and exited from his throat. He has since recovered.
Video surveillance captured the entire incident, showing the shooting and the defendant walking away. After getting arrested, the defendant gave police a statement in which he identified himself in the video and admitted to committing the shooting.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
