Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison for Rape - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 19, 2022
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison for Rape
Defendant Assaulted Victim as She Walked Home, Then Raped Her
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years in prison for the rape of a 21-year-old woman in Canarsie. The defendant was convicted last month following a jury trial.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s lengthy prison sentence holds the defendant accountable for this violent and traumatic attack on an innocent woman and I am grateful to the victim for her brave cooperation throughout this prosecution. My office is deeply committed to vigorously pursuing justice for victims of sexual violence and Brooklyn is safer with this defendant behind bars.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Shinol John, 36, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 25 years in prison and 20 years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo. He was convicted of two counts of first-degree rape, first-degree criminal sexual act and second-degree assault as a sexually motivated felony following a jury trial in November.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 16, 2020, at approximately 2:30 a.m., in the vicinity of Rockaway Avenue in Canarsie, the victim was walking home from a party when she was approached from behind by the defendant, a stranger to the victim, who grabbed her by the neck, punched her in the face and head, and dragged her to a grassy area and forced her to the ground.
The defendant pulled down her underwear and raped her, according to the evidence. He put his hands on her neck, told her not to speak and threatened to slice her neck with a knife. He also told her he had a gun. He then put his mouth on her mouth and genitals. The defendant then left momentarily and told the victim not to move.
Furthermore, the defendant then returned to the scene and raped the victim a second time. The defendant then told the victim to count to 30 and not to move. Then he left and the victim walked out of the area. Two passersby saw the victim and went to her aid. One of them called 911. The defendant returned to the area but left when he saw the individuals aiding the victim.
Finally, according to the evidence, one of the witnesses flagged down a patrol car. Police located the defendant on Saratoga Avenue, and he was arrested. The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital where she was treated for swelling and bruising to the eye, and pain to the jaw.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Gwen Barnes and Pamela Lowe, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
