Brooklyn Man Indicted for Violent Home Invasion Burglary in Crown Heights - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, November 1, 2022
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Violent Home Invasion Burglary in Crown Heights
Defendant Allegedly Assaulted and Sexually Abused His 81-Year-Old Neighbor
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with sexual abuse, burglary as a sexually motivated felony, assault, strangulation, and other charges for allegedly violently attacking an 81-year-old woman in her apartment.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The violent and brutal assault of an elderly woman allegedly perpetrated by this defendant shocks the conscience and our prosecutors are committed to seeking justice and accountability. This kind of depraved conduct will not be tolerated, and our thoughts remain with the victim as she recovers from this horrifically traumatic crime.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Thomas Johnson, 50, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser on a 16-count indictment in which he is charged with first-, second-, and third-degree burglary as a sexually motivated felony, second-degree strangulation as a sexually motivated felony, first-degree sexual abuse, criminal obstruction of breathing or blood circulation, second-degree assault as a sexually motivated felony, and related charges. The defendant is being held without bail and was ordered to return to court on December 1, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 27, 2022, at approximately 3 a.m., in Crown Heights, the 81-year-old victim awoke to the sound of a noise in her apartment. She walked to the kitchen and dining area, and she allegedly saw the defendant standing in her apartment. The defendant then allegedly strangled her until she was unconscious.
When the woman came to, she began to crawl towards her bedroom. The defendant allegedly emerged and began to strangle her. She lost consciousness a second time. When she woke up, she was bleeding from the mouth and nose and called out for help. The woman’s upstairs neighbors, who are related to the defendant, came down to help and called 911.
The victim suffered substantial pain to her neck, difficulty breathing, bloodshot eyes, swelling about the face, a dislocated jaw, bleeding from the mouth and nose, and injuries to her genitals.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel Newcombe of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
