Brooklyn Man Pleads Guilty to Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 16, 2022
Brooklyn Man Pleads Guilty to Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer
Defendant Expected to be Sentenced to 30 Years in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush man has pleaded guilty to several counts of aggravated assault on a police officer and other charges for stabbing a police officer in the neck, taking the injured officer’s gun, using it to shoot the officer’s partner in the hand and also firing it at responding police officers, wounding a third officer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This case highlights the incredible dangers faced by police officers working to protect our neighborhoods, and we have no tolerance for anyone who attempts to do them harm. In outrageous acts of violence, this defendant stabbed a police officer in the neck as he stood on the corner, and then shot his partner and a responding officer. Today’s guilty plea and the significant sentence this defendant faces will ensure he is held accountable for this vicious and unprovoked attack.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dzenan Camovic, 22, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He pleaded guilty to three counts of aggravated assault on a police officer, two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and one count of reckless endangerment before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. He is expected to be sentenced on August 4, 2022, at which time he faces 30 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that on June 3, 2020, at approximately 11:45 p.m., Police Officer Yayon Frantz Jean Pierre and Police Officer Randy Ramnarine were standing on the corner of Flatbush Avenue and Church Avenue when the defendant, walking south on Flatbush Avenue, walked up to Officer Jean Pierre from behind and stabbed him in the neck. He then rushed Officer Ramnarine with the knife and threw it at him.
Officer Jean Pierre fired at the defendant and then tripped. The defendant then struggled with Officer Jean Pierre for control of his gun. After seizing the gun, the defendant fired at Officer Ramnarine, striking him in the hand. Additional police officers responded to the scene and the defendant also opened fire on those officers, striking one of those officers in the hand.
Two officers were shot, both in the left hand, and recovered. Officer Jean Pierre was treated for the stab wound to his neck.
The defendant was hospitalized and treated for multiple gunshot wounds and recovered.
The defendant pleaded guilty yesterday in Brooklyn Federal Court to Hobbs Act Robbery 18 USC 1951(a) and Discharging a Firearm in Furtherance of a Crime of Violence 18 USC 924(c)(1)(A)(iii) for conduct arising out of the same incident. He will also be sentenced to 30 years federally to run concurrent with the state sentence.
The District Attorney thanked Detective Devin Long of the New York City Police Department’s Force Investigation Division, Supervising Analyst Alexandra Aber of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit, Robert Kaftal, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Law Enforcement Assistance Unit and Paralegal Meghan Brancato of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andy Palacio and Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
