Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Sexual Assault of 13-year-old Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 11, 2022
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for
Sexual Assault of 13-year-old Girl
Defendant Forced Victim into Basement at the Breukelen Houses
Before Sexually Assaulting Her
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a West Midwood man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for a violent attack in which he sexually assaulted a 13-year-old girl on her way to pick up a younger sister at school.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “With today’s sentence, we are holding the defendant accountable for a horrific attack against an innocent child. I remain committed to punishing predators who commit such brutal acts of sexual violence against women and seeking justice for victims.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tony Johnson, 20, of West Midwood, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 10 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree criminal sexual act on June 1, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 8, 2019, at approximately 5:15 p.m., the defendant approached the 13-year-old girl from behind as she walked through the Breukelen Houses in Canarsie on her way to pick up her younger sister at school. The defendant grabbed the victim by the shoulder and demanded money and her cellphone. When he searched the victim’s bag and found no valuables, the defendant threatened to stab her and forced her into the basement of a nearby building located at 904 Williams Avenue, where he ordered her to take off her pants and underwear, then violently sexually assaulted her.
According to the evidence, the defendant then ordered the victim to stay in the basement until he fled the scene and threatened to hurt her and her family. After the defendant left, the victim went upstairs. A stranger saw her crying and called 911. The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital where she was treated for her injuries. A sexual assault evidence collection kit was also administered.
On October 9, 2019, the defendant was positively identified in a photo array. The defendant was arrested on October 10, 2019, by the Brooklyn North Warrants Squad. The defendant’s DNA was subsequently matched to the victim’s sexual assault evidence collection kit.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Mirabella, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Perry Cerrato, Deputy Chief of the Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
