Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Fatally Shooting 23-year-old Man Outside East Flatbush Home - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, July 18, 2022
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for
Fatally Shooting 23-year-old Man Outside East Flatbush Home
Pleaded Guilty to Manslaughter that Stemmed from Dispute
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East Flatbush man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for fatally shooting a 23-year-old man during an argument outside of the defendant’s family’s home in 2019.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This senseless act of violence took the life of a young man. The defendant’s guilty plea and today’s sentence hold him accountable for his actions and offer a measure of justice for the victim’s loved ones. We will not tolerate gun violence in the streets of Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Taliby Kaba, 24, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice ¬Dena E. Douglas to 15 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on March 31, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 22, 2019, at approximately 4:45 p.m., the defendant got into an argument with his sister’s boyfriend, the boyfriend’s brother, and a friend, Kenny Joseph, 23, in front of the defendant’s family’s home on East 94th Street in East Flatbush. The defendant chased his sister’s boyfriend down the block with a handgun and ultimately fired a gunshot into the boyfriend’s brother’s car, striking Joseph in the chest. Joseph was taken to Brookdale University Hospital, where he later died.
The defendant fled the scene. He was apprehended on March 15, 2019, in Secaucus, New Jersey.
The case was prosecuted by Senior District Attorneys Daniel Murphy and Viviane Dussek, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
