Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years in Prison for Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 21, 2022
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years in Prison for Stabbing Police Officer in Neck, Shooting His Partner and Firing Gun at Police Officers Who Responded to Scene, Wounding a Third Officer
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Multiple Counts in March
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush man has been sentenced to 30 years in prison following his guilty plea to several counts of aggravated assault on a police officer and related charges for stabbing a police officer in the neck, taking the injured officer’s gun, using it to shoot the officer’s partner in the hand and also firing it at responding police officers, wounding a third officer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “It’s a miracle none of these brave officers were killed when they were ambushed, stabbed, and shot by this brazen extremist. We have no tolerance for violence toward our law enforcement colleagues, and this long prison sentence holds him accountable for his depraved and unconscionable crimes.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dzenan Camovic, 23, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 30 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to three counts of aggravated assault on a police officer, two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and one count of reckless endangerment on March 16, 2022.
The District Attorney said that on June 3, 2020, at approximately 11:45 p.m., Police Officer Yayon Frantz Jean Pierre and Police Officer Randy Ramnarine were standing on the corner of Flatbush Avenue and Church Avenue when the defendant, walking south on Flatbush Avenue, walked up to Officer Jean Pierre from behind and stabbed him in the neck. He then rushed Officer Ramnarine with the knife and threw it at him.
Officer Jean Pierre fired at the defendant and then tripped. The defendant struggled with Officer Jean Pierre for control of his gun. After seizing the gun, the defendant fired at Officer Ramnarine, striking him in the hand. Additional police officers responded to the scene and the defendant also opened fire on those officers, striking one of those officers in the hand.
Two officers were shot, both in the left hand, and recovered. Officer Jean Pierre was treated for the stab wound to his neck.
The defendant was hospitalized and treated for multiple gunshot wounds and recovered.
The defendant pleaded guilty on March 15, 2022, in Brooklyn Federal Court, to Hobbs Act Robbery 18 USC 1951(a) and Discharging a Firearm in Furtherance of a Crime of Violence 18 USC 924(c)(1)(A)(iii) for conduct arising out of the same incident. He was also sentenced today to 30 years federally to run concurrent with the state sentence.
The District Attorney thanked Detective Devin Long of the New York City Police Department’s Force Investigation Division, Supervising Analyst Alexandra Aber of the District Attorney’s Crime Strategies Unit, Robert Kaftal, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Law Enforcement Assistance Unit and Paralegal Meghan Brancato of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau.
The case was prosecuted by former Senior Assistant District Attorney Andres Palacio and Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
