Seventeen Alleged Gang Members Charged in Two Indictments Containing Total of 118 Counts, Including Conspiracy to Commit Murder - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, January 4, 2022
Seventeen Alleged Gang Members Charged in Two Indictments
Containing Total of 118 Counts, Including Conspiracy to Commit Murder
Three Violent Gangs Allegedly Formed Alliance to Increase Numbers and Territory;
Fourteen Shootings Charged During Course of Conspiracy, Including Three Murders
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell, today announced that 17 alleged members of three violent street gangs known collectively as YPF are variously charged in two indictments with conspiracy to commit murder, possess weapons and related charges. The indictments include charges related to shootings that resulted in 14 victims, including four who died as a result of their injuries.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This successful takedown is part of our ongoing strategy to reduce shootings and senseless deaths by targeting the most violent offenders in our communities. A particularly troubling aspect of this case is that many of the defendants are teenagers, including an individual charged in connection with all three murders, allegedly committed when he was only 16. We must engage with our young people and help to keep them on the right path. They must learn that there is another way to live beyond the gang life and be given the tools and services to help them succeed. I am committed to doing both: aggressively prosecuting shooters and partnering with community-based groups that work with our youth to prevent future violence.”
Commissioner Sewell said, “The joint, long-term investigation took aim at the most violent elements of these criminal street organizations. Once again, the NYPD focused on the few people willing to pick up a gun to harm those who live and work in our Brooklyn neighborhoods. By pursuing these kinds of cases together, our NYPD detectives and prosecutors in the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, work relentlessly to continue reducing this kind of violence – and our work goes on.”
The defendants will be arraigned beginning this afternoon before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Craig Walker on two indictments in which they are variously charged with first-, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault, second- and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon, and first-degree reckless endangerment.
The District Attorney said the indictment is the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Brooklyn North Violent Crimes Squad into the violence allegedly committed by members and associates of three violent street gangs that formed an alliance. The gangs are FNO (Fort N**** Only or Fear No One), PPP (Pistol Packing Pitkin) and YAWAH (Young and Wild and Hustling). Collectively, they are known as YPF
The alleged purpose of the alliance was to form a large umbrella group to increase their numbers and territory as well as commit violence against their common enemies and maintain geographic dominance. Other alleged benefits included access to more handguns and freedom to travel safely to their allies’ neighborhoods and the ability to hunt down more rivals.
Geographically, the YPF alliance territory includes the following: The 73rd Precinct, specifically the Langston Hughes, Van Dyke and Seth Low Houses of the New York City Housing Authority in Brownsville, which is YAWAH territory; in the 75th Precinct, specifically in the area of 2211 Pitkin Avenue, known as Fiorentino Plaza, of NYCHA, and surrounding areas of East New York, which is PPP territory; and in the 88th Precinct, specifically in the area of the Ingersoll Houses, of NYCHA, and surrounding areas of Fort Greene, which is FNO territory.
At the start of the conspiracies, the defendants ranged in age from 14 to 20 years old.
It is alleged that many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Furthermore, it is alleged that the defendants boasted about their criminal actions on social media, directing acts of violence and taking credit for shootings.
It is alleged that YPF members committed 14 shootings during the course of the conspiracy, with 14 shooting victims, including nine innocent victims. Four individuals died as a result of those shootings and the rest were injured.
• It is alleged that on October 28, 2020, at approximately 6:05 p.m., FNO members Iquan Warlick and Nakhai Addison got off the train in East New York and walked over to a bodega located at 296 New Lots Avenue. At that time, an alleged rival they were looking for was inside the bodega waiting for food along with Sherard McKoy, an 18-year-old college freshman not affiliated with any gang. The rival stepped outside, saw Warlick and Addison and went inside to warn McKoy. The two defendants then entered the bodega. Warlick allegedly pulled out a gun and chased McKoy out of the bodega, then fired multiple shots, killing him. Addison then allegedly took the gun from Warlick and returned to the bodega to fire additional shots towards the rear of the bodega where their target ran to hide.
• On November 22, 2020, it is alleged, George Risher Jr., Iquan Warlick and at least two other unidentified individuals traveled to East New York from Fort Greene by car to a birthday party for a 16-year-old in which enemies of YPF would be in attendance. One of the unidentified individuals allegedly shot at a group near the venue, striking someone in the leg. The defendants and that individual then chased a group of perceived rivals around the corner and Risher allegedly fired at them, causing property damage. A short time later, Warlick, Risher and two unidentified individuals then went to where the party had relocated, 15 Albany Avenue in Crown Heights, in rival gang territory. Risher and the third individual went to the third floor and allegedly fired multiple shots at partygoers there, striking and injuring five innocent victims and killing innocent victim, Daijyonna Long, 20, who was visiting from Virginia. Warlick and the fourth individual remained on the first floor where they each allegedly fired shots towards the group located there, striking and injuring two individuals who were in an elevator on the first floor.
• On September 21, 2021, at approximately 3:05 p.m., it is alleged that several FNO members entered the Metrotech Mall in Downtown Brooklyn. Giovanni Bennett allegedly fired multiple shots at a former FNO member who now belongs to a rival gang, Berg Fam. An innocent New York University student was shot in the arm.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detectives Daniel Crerend and William Pugliese and Sergeant Andrew Pagano, of the NYPD’s Brooklyn North Violent Crimes Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Danilo Maldonado and Sergeant Steven Zanca, also of the Brooklyn North Violent Crimes Squad, and the overall supervision of Captain Rachael Kosak, Commanding Officer of the Brooklyn North Violent Crimes Squad in collaboration with Lieutenant Ryan Gillis of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, Chief John Chell, Commanding Officer of Detective Borough Brooklyn North and Chief of Detectives James W. Essig. Detectives from the 88th, 73rd and 75th Precinct assisted in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Martha Duffy and Sean Hughes, along with the assistance of Senior Assistant District Attorneys Kaitlin McTague and Stephanie Pak, and Paralegal Alyssa Herrera, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorneys Jennifer Cilia and Leila Rosini, VCE Deputy Bureau Chiefs, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
1. Nakhai Addison, 17, of East New York
2. Dontay Alarcon, 18, of Brownsville
3. Giovanni Bennett, 17, of Fort Greene
4. Tyshawn Bussey, 18, of Fort Greene
5. Tiemel Clark, 23, of Prospect Heights
6. Freedom Drayton, 17, of Fort Greene
7. Margario Harris, 21, of East New York
8. Tieteanna Hoyle, 18, of Crown Heights
9. Lesley Jemison, 18, of Fort Greene
10. Reuben Johnson, 19, of Brownsville
11. Dashawn Leggett, 19, of East New York
12. Desire Louree, 20, of the Bronx
13. Amir Quinones, 18, of Fort Greene
14. George Risher Jr., 17, of Fort Greene
15. Ron Robinson, 19, of Fort Greene
16. Ziquan Thompson, 18, of Fort Greene
17. Iquan Warlick, 17, of Fort Greene
[Note: Materials shown at the press conference are available
here
.]
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
