Brooklyn Man Charged with Murder and Assault for Killing Woman and Injuring Four Others While Allegedly Driving Recklessly, Evading Police - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, October 13, 2022
Brooklyn Man Charged with Murder and Assault for Killing Woman and Injuring Four Others While Allegedly Driving Recklessly, Evading Police
Was Allegedly Speeding and Weaving into Oncoming Traffic;
Decedent’s 8-year-old Grandson Suffered Serious Brain Injuries
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been indicted for depraved indifference murder, assault, and related charges for causing the death of a woman, seriously injuring her grandson, and wounding three others when he allegedly fled a police officers’ car stop at a high rate of speed, ran red lights and crashed into a cyclist, pedestrians, another vehicle and a bodega, before fleeing the scene on foot.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged recklessness behind the wheel of a stolen vehicle cost a beloved grandmother her life and injured others as he fled from a traffic stop. Everyone in Brooklyn deserves to feel safe on our streets, and we will now seek to hold this defendant accountable for his horrific alleged crimes.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tyler Green, 22, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglas on a 35-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, first- and second-degree assault, second-degree manslaughter and other related counts. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on November 2, 2022. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 25, 2022, at about 7:10 p.m., the defendant was driving a stolen Honda HR-V when police officers stopped him at the corner of Ralph Avenue and Chauncey Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant after observing him run a stop sign and determining that the license plate did not match the vehicle.
The defendant allegedly took off at a high rate of speed and drove four blocks, to the intersection of Ralph Avenue and Macon Street, where he weaved around cars that were stopped at a red light and entered the intersection against the light and against traffic. He then struck a 28-year-old cyclist who was going in the opposite direction, causing the cyclist to suffer a fracture to his leg.
The defendant also struck Lyn Christopher, 68, who was crossing Ralph Avenue with the light, along with her 8-year-old grandson who was visiting from Atlanta. The grandmother died at the scene and the boy suffered traumatic head injuries and is still hospitalized. The defendant kept going, allegedly running another red light one block away, T-boning a vehicle and injuring its 24-year-old driver who suffered a fractured collar bone. His car then jumped the curb and crashed into a bodega, causing minor injuries to a 43-year-old bodega employee who was standing outside.
The defendant then allegedly jumped out of the car, along with his passenger, and fled on foot. The entire incident was captured on video and additional videos showed the defendant running back to his home on Gates Avenue, about a mile away. DNA matching the defendant was recovered from the deployed airbag of the Honda.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and formerly of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Nocella, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau, and under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Courtney Hogg, Deputy Chief of the Grey Zone, and Assistant District Attorney Robert Walsh, Bureau Chief.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
#
