Man Convicted for Killing Brooklyn Father Over Stolen Baseball Cap in Flatbush - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 14, 2022
Man Convicted for Killing Brooklyn Father
Over Stolen Baseball Cap in Flatbush
Defendant Fatally Shot the Victim in the Back After Confrontation
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush man has been convicted of first-degree manslaughter for fatally shooting a 38-year-old father after he retrieved a baseball cap that members of the defendant’s gang had robbed from his son days earlier.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant took the life of an innocent father as he walked away, having retrieved his son’s stolen baseball cap. This cold-blooded killing left a family heartbroken, and today’s conviction ensures that the defendant will spend many years behind bars. My thoughts are with the victim’s loved ones as they continue to grieve this tremendous loss.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Adonis Barnett, 22, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. The defendant was convicted today of first-degree manslaughter following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Raymond Rodriguez. He faces up to 25 years in prison when he is sentenced on May 26, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on August 3, 2016, at approximately 10:18 p.m., near the basketball courts outside of P.S. 6, in the vicinity of Snyder and Bedford Avenues, the defendant shot the victim, Gerald Cummings, once in the back and once in the back of the head. The victim had approached the defendant, who was 16 at the time, and another teen who had robbed his son’s ‘Don C’ Oakland Raiders leather and snakeskin baseball cap, on July 29, 2016. The cap was valued at several hundred dollars.
On the night of the shooting, witnesses saw the defendant with an individual who was wearing the distinct stolen cap prompting the victim’s 17-year-old son to call his father for assistance. When the victim arrived and got his son’s hat back, the defendant brandished a gun and fired three times at the victim as the victim was walking away, striking him twice, the evidence showed.
The victim died at Kings County Hospital as a result of gunshot wounds.
A previous trial ended with a conviction of second-degree criminal possession of a gun, and a hung jury on other charges.
Assistance with the prosecution of the case was provided by Jannette Ayala, paralegal supervisor of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Sherleese Adams, paralegal of the Homicide Bureau. Detective Investigators also contributed assistance.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Chow Yun Xie, Deputy Bureau Chief, with guidance from Assistant District Attorney Howard Jackson, First Deputy Bureau Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
