Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and NYPD to Host Gun Buyback Event in Flatbush - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 12, 2022
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and NYPD to
Host Gun Buyback Event in Flatbush
$200 and iPad Will be Given for Working Handgun or Assault Rifle, No Questions Asked;
Will be Held at Vanderveer Park United Methodist Church on Saturday, January 15
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell, today announced a Gun Buyback event that will be held on Saturday, January 15, 2022 from 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. at Vanderveer Park United Methodist Church, 3114 Glenwood Road, in Flatbush, Brooklyn. The event is hosted in partnership with the Rev. Melvin D. Boone and with the GodSquad.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “My Office has been employing a multi-pronged strategy to bring down the levels of gun violence in Brooklyn, focusing on the most violent individuals and building strong community partnerships. Saturday’s gun buyback event will provide an opportunity for everyone to turn in a firearm and receive cash and an iPad – a simple action that can help reduce the number of lethal weapons on our streets. I encourage anyone who is in possession of a gun or rifle, or knows of someone who is, to come out, get some money and help make Brooklyn safer.”
Commissioner Sewell said, “The NYPD gun buyback programs are an integral element in the department’s ongoing, intelligence-driven efforts to reduce violence and remove illegal firearms from the city’s streets. These programs rely upon both the continued collaboration of residents who participate and the commitment of the department’s prosecutorial partners. The NYPD encourages everyone to please take part in this effort, which is another example of our work together to keep one another safe.”
Pastor Boone said, “There is much work to be done to improve the safety and quality of life in minority communities. It will take a concerted effort from law enforcement, community members and organizations to bring about real and lasting change. At Vanderveer Park United Methodist Church we choose mutual respect and cooperation over confrontation. We believe this is the best approach to transform dangerous streets into thriving neighborhoods. It is our pleasure to work with our partners in this effort.”
Pastor Edward-Richard Hinds, Executive Director of the 67th Precinct Clergy Council/The GodSquad, said, “Guns are our number one public enemy. Let us get them off the streets. We are pleased to partner with Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez in reducing the number of firearms on our streets. Public safety is a shared responsibility and so, as the clergy leaders in East Flatbush host the gun buyback program in one of our churches, we remain committed to creating programs to reduce gun violence, offer resources for our youth and ultimately create safer communities for all.”
The District Attorney said that his Office, along with the NYPD, will offer money in the form of a $200 bank card and an iPad for each operable gun or assault rifle turned in (iPads are subject to availability on a first-come, first-served basis). All transactions will be anonymous, no questions asked. The bank cards will be issued after each firearm is received and screened by officers on-site. Guns should be unloaded and packaged in a paper or plastic bag or a box when brought to the event. If transported by car, the guns must be kept in the trunk. Both working and inoperable weapons will be accepted.
Participants will receive $25 for operable rifles, shotguns and air guns. Unlimited numbers of guns can be turned in, but participants will receive maximum of $600 in bank cards and one iPad per person. No identification is required, and the firearms will be accepted with no questions asked. Active or retired law enforcement officers and licensed gun dealers are not eligible for this event.
The church is located at 3114 Glenwood Road, a short distance from the Flatbush Avenue-Brooklyn College Subway Station (2, 3, 4, and 5 lines), the B6 Bus at Glenwood Road/Nostrand Avenue, and the B41 bus at Flatbush Avenue/Glenwood Road.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
