Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications For Four-Week High School Internship Summer Program - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 15, 2022
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office Accepting Applications
For Four-Week High School Internship Summer Program
Paid Internships Will Offer Insight into Criminal Justice System, Public Service and the Law
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the start of the application period for high school rising sophomores, juniors and seniors interested in participating in a four-week summer internship program. The in-person internship is open to students who live and/or attend high school in Brooklyn and are looking to learn about the different careers and roles available within the criminal justice system. This year’s summer internship will run from July 5 to July 29, 2022.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We are proud to offer this opportunity for high school students who are interested to learn more about the legal system and to gain hands-on experience in handling criminal cases. Our interns will learn about what it takes to build and prosecute a case, from investigatory steps to charging decisions to the court process, and will be exposed to many different career opportunities as they consider their future professional goals. The internship program will provide students with an understanding of how the criminal justice system operates and how my Office works to keep Brooklyn safe and improve fairness.”
Selected students will be assigned to one of the many specialized units within the DA’s Office, while also getting an overview of the criminal justice system. They can expect to assist with research and analysis; help prosecutors to prepare for trial; work on discovery; carry out file maintenance and organization of legal documents; participate in Trial Zone workshops; and observe criminal proceedings, including trials, guilty pleas and sentencings.
During the four-week internship, participants will receive a $150 weekly stipend and a MetroCard. Interested applicants must submit their most recent school transcript, a one-page resume, working papers issued by their school, and a 250-word typed personal essay (12 pt. font and double-spaced) on why they are interested in interning with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and how the internship will impact their future career goals.
To apply, please visit: http://apply.brooklynda.org to upload transcript, essay and resume. All application materials must be received no later than Thursday, May 12, 2022. For questions or assistance please call (718) 250-3191 or (718) 250-4873 or email
hsinternships@brooklynda.org
.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
