New York City Police Officer Indicted for Attempted Murder for Off-Duty Shooting Outside of Canarsie Lounge - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 23, 2022
New York City Police Officer Indicted for Attempted Murder for
Off-Duty Shooting Outside of Canarsie Lounge
Bullet Struck Victim’s Arm and Grazed His Back
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an off-duty police officer has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault and other related charges for allegedly punching, pistol-whipping and shooting a man outside of a lounge in Canarsie.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “After a review of all the evidence in this case, a Grand Jury returned an indictment charging this defendant with attempted murder and other charges. The fact that this defendant is a police officer makes his alleged actions all the more shocking. We will now seek to hold him accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Larry Valdemar, 37, a 16-year veteran of the NYPD last assigned to the 104th Precinct in Queens. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Eugene Guarino on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, second-degree assault, reckless endangerment and related counts. The defendant was ordered held on bail of $35,000 cash or $75,000 bond and to return to court on July 13, 2022. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that on April 18, 2022, the defendant got into a verbal argument inside Chloe’s Restaurant and Lounge, located at Avenue L and East 94th Street, when the victim, a 32-year-old man, attempted to intervene to calm down the defendant, which allegedly caused him to become irate.
The defendant then allegedly went outside of the club and waited for the victim to leave the club. At approximately 12:45 a.m., the victim and several other people passed by the defendant, who allegedly said something to him and walked next to him until they reached the corner.
It is alleged that when they reached the corner, the defendant punched the victim in the face. The victim attempted to hit the defendant, who then allegedly reached into his waistband, removed a black firearm and pistol-whipped the victim on his upper back. The gun then discharged once, after which the defendant left the scene.
The victim was treated for a gunshot wound to his arm and a graze wound to his back.
A casing matching a 9mm pistol was recovered from the scene and was matched to the defendant’s firearm.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Evan Hannay, of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Cary Fischer, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Karla Watson, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
