Brooklyn Father Arraigned in Death of 23-Month-Old Daughter - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 9, 2022
Brooklyn Father Arraigned in Death of 23-Month-Old Daughter
Defendant Allegedly Hit Toddler in Head, Causing Traumatic Brain Injury
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, and other charges after he allegedly hit his 23-month-old daughter in the head, causing her death. The child died from a traumatic brain injury one day before her second birthday.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “A precious and innocent child was fatally injured, allegedly at the hands of the person responsible for nurturing and protecting her. My heart is with the little girl’s family, and we will now seek to hold this defendant accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Robert Wright, 33, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree manslaughter, second-degree assault, criminally negligent homicide and endangering the welfare of a child. Wright was released on $100,000 bail and was ordered to return to court on January 27, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 4, 2022, at approximately 10:30 a.m., the defendant hit his daughter in the back of the head with a closed fist. The defendant later told investigators he had taken a nap with the child and hit her as he was waking up from a dream. The incident occurred in the Brooklyn home he shared with the child and other family members.
According to the investigation, the victim’s mother returned home and observed that the child was lethargic. Family members later observed the child bleeding from the mouth. The child was taken to Brookdale Hospital, where a scan revealed bleeding and swelling to the brain. The child went into cardiac arrest before being transferred to Cohen Children’s Medical Center. She was pronounced deceased on October 5, 2022. The New York City Medical Examiner later determined the child had suffered a traumatic brain injury with the cause of death ruled to be blunt force impact to the head.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau and Senior Assistant District Attorney Sapna Kishnani, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
