Queens Man Sentenced to 11 Years in Prison For Violently Attacking and Sexually Abusing His Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, August 9, 2022
Queens Man Sentenced to 11 Years in Prison
For Violently Attacking and Sexually Abusing His Girlfriend
Defendant Broke into Victim’s Home, Killed Her Cat
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Queens man has been sentenced to 11 years in prison following his conviction on sexual abuse and related charges for viciously assaulting his girlfriend and killing her cat in the Brooklyn apartment where she lived with her four children.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant brutally and viciously attacked his girlfriend and killed her cat in front of her children in a fit of violent rage. This family continues to suffer from the trauma of this terrible assault and the devastating impact it has had on their lives. This sentence holds him accountable for his unconscionable behavior.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Edgar Guayan, 29, of Ridgewood, Queens. He was sentenced today to 11 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Claudia DePeyster. The defendant was convicted of first-degree burglary, first-degree sexual abuse, third-degree attempted aggravated sexual abuse, second-degree assault, criminal obstruction on breathing, aggravated cruelty to animals, and the overdriving, torturing and injuring of animals on July 20, 2022, following a bench trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 17, 2022, at approximately midnight, the defendant broke into the Prospect Lefferts Gardens apartment of his girlfriend and her four children after banging on and kicking the door. He then repeatedly hit her about the head, face and body with a closed fist, and placed his fingers in her mouth to prevent her from screaming. He then placed his hands around her neck and applied pressure and placed his mouth over her mouth and nose to prevent her from breathing.
Furthermore, he then sexually abused the victim and attempted to insert an object inside of her, but he was not successful because she kicked him away. When her cat scratched the defendant’s leg, he picked up the cat and threw it, causing the cat to die in front of her and her children. The defendant and the victim then went to bed, and he held his arm around her to prevent her from leaving. At approximately 4 a.m., she managed to break free, leave the apartment and call 911.
The victim was taken to Maimonides Medical Center where she was admitted for observation and treated for a fractured nose and bruising and swelling to the face and arms.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Elaine Albenda and Assistant District Attorney Hannah Laufer, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kaminsky, Bureau Chief.
#
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
