East New York Man Sentenced to Eight Years in Prison For Attempted Sex Trafficking of 15-Year-Old Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 13, 2022
East New York Man Sentenced to Eight Years in Prison
For Attempted Sex Trafficking of 15-Year-Old Girl
Defendant Forced Victim to Engage in Prostitution,
Perform Sex Acts in a Series of Underground Strip Clubs
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East New York man has been sentenced to eight years in prison after pleading guilty to the attempted sex trafficking of a child. The defendant forced a 15-year-old girl to work as a prostitute and perform sex acts, including in a series of underground strip clubs.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant exploited and raped a vulnerable 15- year-old girl and then trafficked her for money in exchange for sex. Today’s sentence holds this violent sexual predator accountable for his despicable crime and sends a strong message to anyone who would exploit a child in this way that they will face serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Bryant Entzminger, 42, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to eight years in prison and seven years’ post-release supervision. He must also register as a sex offender. The defendant pleaded guilty to attempted sex trafficking of a child on July 27, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 13, 2020, the defendant, who was a passenger in a car, approached the victim as she was walking near Avenue J and invited her to his home. He asked her name and age and then instructed her that her name was “Chocolate Dior” and that she was 21. The victim was taken to the defendant’s home in East New York where the defendant and two other men had intercourse with the victim.
The defendant dressed the victim in a suggestive outfit and took photos of her to use in online advertisements to arrange dates during which the victim engaged in various sex acts with men in exchange for money.
Between October 13 and October 25, 2020, the defendant took the victim to underground strip clubs where she was made to dance, strip and engage in various sex acts with men in exchange for money. The defendant also brought the victim to the track in East New York as well as various hotels and apartments where she would engage in intercourse for money. In all these instances, the victim collected the money and gave it directly to the defendant, who supplied the victim with marijuana, cocaine, cigarettes, and alcohol.
In the late evening of October 24, 2020, the victim was able to contact a friend who called her sister, who contacted the New York City Police Department. In the interim, the victim managed to escape on October 25, 2020.
The case was investigated by Detective Elizabeth Gonzalez of the New York City Police Department’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Robert Duplessis, Lieutenant Amy Capogna and Captain Thomas Milano.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Mary E. Monahan of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit and Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, Deputy Unit Chief, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
