Brooklyn Man Indicted for Three Sexual Assaults of Two Victims - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, June 27, 2022
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Three Sexual Assaults of Two Victims
Allegedly Assaulted Woman Walking in Crown Heights, Then Attacked Her Again;
Defendant is also Charged with Raping a 13-Year-Old Girl
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been indicted for sexually assaulting a woman twice last month and for raping a 13-year-old girl in September 2021. Both victims were strangers to the defendant.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is charged with three horrific and violent sexual offenses, including raping an innocent child and repeatedly sexually assaulting a stranger. We will vigorously prosecute this alleged serial sexual predator to keep the people of Brooklyn safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Miguel James, 42, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser on two indictments in which he is charged with first-degree criminal sexual act, second-degree assault, first-degree sexual abuse, second-degree robbery, forcible touching, second-degree rape, endangering the welfare of a child and related charges. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on August 10, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 27, 2022, at approximately 2 a.m., in the vicinity of St. Marks Avenue near East New York Avenue, the defendant, who was in a car, offered a 52-year-old woman who was walking home a ride. After she declined, the defendant allegedly got out of his vehicle, a black Acura, pushed her to the ground, and forced her to perform a sex act.
The defendant then got into his car and left the scene, but approximately 15 minutes later, as the victim was walking in the vicinity of St. Marks Avenue and Howard Avenue, the defendant allegedly spotted her, got out of his vehicle, sexually assaulted her again and stole her cell phone.
Later that morning, the victim told a neighbor about the assault and the neighbor called police. The victim was taken to Brookdale Hospital. She was treated for a broken wrist and other injuries.
Following an investigation by police, the defendant was arrested on June 1, 2022. He was also charged with raping a 13-year-old girl in his apartment on September 8, 2021. The victim’s friend was an acquaintance of the defendant.
The cases are being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Paul Hershan of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
