East Flatbush Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Kidnapping and Predatory Sexual Assault of Teen Boy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
East Flatbush Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him
With Kidnapping and Predatory Sexual Assault of Teen Boy
Defendant Abducted 13-Year-Old Stranger at Knifepoint as He Walked Home from School
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East Flatbush man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with predatory sexual assault, criminal sexual act, kidnapping, luring a child, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and other charges in connection with abducting and sexually assaulting a 13-year-old boy.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a chilling assault of an innocent child making his way home from school in broad daylight. Thankfully this brave young victim survived this horrific attack and was able to lead police to his alleged assailant, who we will now seek to bring to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Christopher Fiesco, 32, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jill Konviser on an indictment in which he is charged with predatory sexual assault, first-degree criminal sexual assault, second-degree kidnapping, luring a child, and related offenses. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on August 10, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 2, 2022, at approximately 3:50 p.m., the defendant, wearing a full ski mask, approached a 13-year-old boy in the vicinity of Winthrop Street and East 98th Street in East Flatbush, grabbed the child’s arm, and asked him for the time. When the child tried to leave, the defendant allegedly threatened him with a knife, told him not to scream, and took him to a building located at 87 East 53rd Street.
The defendant allegedly forced the child to climb a fire escape and enter an apartment through the window. Once inside, the defendant told him to shower and then allegedly repeatedly sexually assaulted the child. He then let the child leave.
The victim went home and reported the assault to his family, who called 911.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Detectives assigned to the Brooklyn Special Victims Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Connie Solimeo of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
