Sheepshead Bay Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life For Fatally Shooting Estranged Wife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 29, 2022
Sheepshead Bay Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life For
Fatally Shooting Estranged Wife
Defendant Assaulted Victim’s Cousin, Who Tried to Protect Her
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 20 years to life in prison for killing his estranged wife, who he physically assaulted and then shot in the head after tracking her down at a family reunion in Sea Gate, Brooklyn. He fled the scene and was apprehended in Delaware a week later.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence holds this defendant accountable for the callous and senseless murder of a young mother of two at a family reunion, and my condolences go out to the family of Iveliss Alvarado for their tremendous loss. My Office has committed significant resources to the investigation and vigorous prosecution of domestic and gender-based violence and I encourage any victim in need of help or support to reach out.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gabino Genao, 34, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 20 years to life in prison. He pleaded guilty last November to second-degree murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, first-degree reckless endangerment, and third-degree assault.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 26, 2017, at about 11:15 p.m., in front of 2714 West 36th Street in Sea Gate, Brooklyn, the defendant shot his estranged wife, Iveliss Alvarado, 30, multiple times in the head. The couple was not living together at the time and the victim was celebrating at a family reunion before she was fatally shot.
A cousin of the victim witnessed the defendant punching Ms. Alvarado and intervened to try to protect her. The cousin suffered bruises when the defendant punched her as well. The defendant then opened fire. He was apprehended in Delaware on June 2, 2017 and extradited to Brooklyn.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Michael Damico of the 60th Precinct Detective Squad.
The District Attorney thanked Senior Intelligence Analyst Eungee Hwang, of the Crime Strategies Unit, for her work on the case. Senior Intelligence Analyst Daniel Figlin of CSU, Homicide Paralegal Meghan Brancato, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Denise Pavlides assisted in the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Andy Palacio, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
