Tesla Driver Charged with Manslaughter for Allegedly Speeding and Missing Turn, Killing Passenger, and Injuring Three Others - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 9, 2022
Tesla Driver Charged with Manslaughter for Allegedly Speeding and
Missing Turn, Killing Passenger, and Injuring Three Others
Allegedly Drove at 100 mph, Flipped Car and Crashed into Building
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been indicted for reckless manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, assault, and related charges for killing an 18-year-old passenger and injuring three others when he allegedly drove a Tesla at a very high rate of speed and failed to negotiate a turn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged reckless driving caused the death of a young man whose entire life was ahead of him, and left others injured. My Office will continue to fully investigate cases of vehicular violence and prosecute drivers who break the law on our roadways and endanger our communities.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jonathan Mikhaylov, 23, of Gravesend, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew Sciarrino on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, second-degree assault, second-degree reckless endangerment, reckless driving, and speeding. Bail was set at $5,000 cash or $25,000 bond, and the defendant was ordered to return to court on January 19, 2023. He faces a maximum sentence of five to 15 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that on June 10, 2021, at approximately 11:42 p.m., the defendant was allegedly driving a Tesla northbound on National Drive in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, at an extremely high rate of speed. There were four passengers in the vehicle. The defendant failed to negotiate a ninety-degree turn onto Strickland Avenue, proceeding through a metal fence and striking two garbage dumpsters. The Tesla then became airborne for nearly forty feet and rotated mid-air, at which point the rear passenger side of the vehicle struck a retaining wall. The Tesla ultimately stopped within the driveway of 5905 Strickland Avenue, where a senior living community is located.
Jack Levy, 18, who was in the back seat, was transported to Brookdale Hospital with severe head trauma and was pronounced dead the next day. Another 18-year-old man sustained multiple fractures, a laceration to his liver, bruising to his lung, and a pneumothorax. A third passenger, 22, suffered a fractured skull and the fourth passenger, 24, had minor injuries. The defendant also sustained minor injuries.
The investigation revealed that the defendant was allegedly driving at 100 mph less than three seconds before the collision. Video surveillance from the senior living community depicts the collision and the speed at which the defendant was driving.
This case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jennifer DaRin of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Andrea Orlando, Deputy Chief of Red Zone, and Assistant District Attorney Jacob Uriel, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson, Red Zone Bureau Chief.
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
#
