Defendant Convicted in Double Homicide for Murdering His Sister and Former Girlfriend Sentenced to 50 Years to Life in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 9, 2022
Defendant Convicted in Double Homicide for Murdering
His Sister and Former Girlfriend Sentenced to 50 Years to Life in Prison
Andre Neverson was Convicted at Trial Almost 20 Years After Violent Spree
Brooklyn District Eric Gonzalez today announced that a former Brooklyn resident has been sentenced to 50 years to life in prison following his conviction on two counts of murder for shooting to death his sister and former girlfriend in July 2002. The defendant then fled Brooklyn and remained at large until his arrest in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 2018.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Justice has prevailed in this case and a man who committed two senseless murders nearly 20 years ago will now pay for his actions. I hope that the family and friends of the victims, who waited so many years for some closure, will find solace in today’s sentence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Andre Neverson, 57, of Trinidad and Tobago. He was sentenced today to 50 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. The defendant was convicted of two counts of second-degree murder and one count of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial last month.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 8, 2002, Neverson fatally shot his older sister, Patricia Neverson, 39, in her Crown Heights, Brooklyn home following an ongoing dispute between them. She was shot in the head and body and was found later that same night.
Later that day, at around 6:20 p.m., Neverson picked up his former girlfriend, Donna Davis, 38, at Audrey Cohen College in Queens. After she got in his minivan, she was never seen again, until, according to the evidence, her body was found on July 11, 2002 dumped in an empty lot in East New York, Brooklyn, with a gunshot wound to her head.
Neverson fled Brooklyn, but was apprehended on September 4, 2018, in Bridgeport, Connecticut by the U.S. Marshals Service and returned to Brooklyn.
The District Attorney thanked Supervising Paralegal Jannette Ayala and Paralegals Meghan Brancato and Angelika Rostkowska, of the Homicide Bureau for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Timothy Gough, Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel M. Murphy, also of the Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
T
HE
B
ROOKLYN
D
ISTRICT
A
TTORNEY'S
O
FFICE
District Attorney's Action Center
350 Jay Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201
718-250-2340
Leadership
Meet The DA
Executive Team
Bureaus & Units
Special Programs
Justice 2020
Post-Conviction Bureau
Re-Entry Bureau
Youth Diversion &
Initiatives
Seal Your Conviction
Victim Services
DA's Action Center
Immigrant Affairs Unit
Frauds Bureau
Human Trafficking Unit
Family Justice Center
Careers
Legal Recruitment
Internships
Legal Training
Non-Legal Recruitment
Newsroom
Press Releases
Media
Justice News
Op-Eds
Podcasts
Community Engagement
Resources
Accessibility
