Prospect Lefferts Gardens Man Indicted for Illegal Possession of Ghost Guns - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 25, 2023
Prospect Lefferts Gardens Man Indicted for Illegal Possession of Ghost Guns
Four Fully Assembled Handguns Recovered from Defendant’s Apartment; Investigators Also Allegedly Find Tools and Parts to Assemble Additional Weapons and Ammo
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced the indictment of a Prospect Lefferts Gardens man who allegedly purchased dozens of gun parts on eBay capable of being built into illegal, untraceable firearms known as ghost guns. Four fully assembled handguns were allegedly recovered from his apartment, as well as 9mm rounds of ammunition, and various tools and polymer parts to assemble additional weapons and ammunition.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly assembled four handguns and acquired the parts and tools to make more, illustrating the ease with which someone can obtain and make these lethal and untraceable weapons, and the increasing threat they pose to public safety. Eradicating deadly ghost guns from Brooklyn is a priority for my office, and we are committed to holding accountable anyone who traffics, makes, or possesses them.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dexter Nurse, 49, of Prospect Lefferts Gardens, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew Sciarrino on an indictment in which he is charged with second-, third-, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon, criminal possession of a firearm, prohibition on unfinished frames or receivers and unlawful possession of pistol ammunition. Bail was continued at $250,000 bond. The defendant was ordered to return to court on April 11, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, following an investigation, from January 2022 to October 2022, the defendant was identified as having made 56 firearm related purchases on eBay for ghost gun parts that were allegedly shipped to the defendant’s address on Lefferts Avenue in Prospect Lefferts Gardens. A search warrant was executed at the defendant’s apartment on November 29, 2022, and numerous items were allegedly recovered, including four fully assembled handguns. Investigators also allegedly found 9mm rounds of ammunition, and various tools and polymer parts to assemble additional weapons, as well as a machine press to manufacture ammunition.
The investigation was conducted by the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Ghost Gun Unit
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Michael O’Rourke, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kathryn Spota, VCE Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, VCE First Deputy Bureau Chief, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
