Former Brooklyn Postal Worker Indicted for Stealing Over $160,000 - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 29, 2023
Former Brooklyn Postal Worker Indicted for Stealing Over $160,000
Defendant Worked as Window Clerk at a Post Office in Bensonhurst Where She Allegedly Voided Customers’ Money Order Purchases and Pocketed the Cash
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with United States Postal Service, Office of the Inspector General, Northeast Area Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Matthew Modafferi, today announced that a Brooklyn woman has been arraigned on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree grand larceny, official misconduct, and first-degree falsifying business records for allegedly stealing more than $160,000 while working as a window clerk at a post office in Bensonhurst.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly abused her position and betrayed the public trust for her own personal gain. A thorough investigation uncovered the extent of her alleged theft, and we will now seek to hold her accountable. Public corruption will not be tolerated in Brooklyn.”
Special Agent in Charge Modafferi said, “The Special Agents of the U.S. Postal Service, Office of Inspector General are dedicated to maintaining the integrity of the Postal Service and its personnel. When a Postal Service employee decides to break the public’s trust and participates in criminal acts, USPS OIG Special Agents will work tirelessly to bring those responsible to justice. This indictment will serve as a reminder that there are severe consequences when individuals utilize their Postal Service position to commit crimes. The U.S. Postal Service, Office of Inspector General would like to thank our law enforcement partners and the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office for their dedication and efforts in this investigation.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Sherrin Saddler, 34, of Brooklyn. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree grand larceny, official misconduct, and 180 counts of first-degree falsifying business records. She was released without bail and ordered to return to court on September 13, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between November 15, 2019, and July 30, 2020, the defendant allegedly stole over $160,0000 while working as a window clerk at the Parkville Station post office in Bensonhurst. It is alleged the defendant received cash from customers who purchased money orders. The defendant then voided the money orders – and pocketed the cash – once the customers left. According to the investigation, the defendant did this 180 times. Some customers’ money orders bounced, while other customers were able to remit the money orders as payment to the addressee or vendor without issue. However, when the money orders were cashed and then returned to the U.S. Federal Reserve for accounting, the money orders were found to have been voided. After an audit, USPS Inspectors learned of the loss occurring at the Parkville Station location and launched an investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Tamara Edelstein, of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Adam Libove, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Public Integrity Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Laura Neubauer, Chief of the Public Integrity Bureau, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division and Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
