Maryland Man Indicted for Murder of Brooklyn Woman Following Dispute Over Parking at Home Depot Lot in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 20, 2023
Maryland Man Indicted for Murder of Brooklyn Woman Following Dispute Over Parking at Home Depot Lot in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Defendant Also Charged with Shooting and Injuring Victim’s Boyfriend
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Maryland man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder and attempted murder for allegedly opening fire on a car, killing a young woman and injuring her boyfriend following a dispute over a parking space.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Imani Sharpless was a young woman with her whole life ahead of her. She died senselessly after this defendant allegedly callously opened fire on two innocent people over a minor dispute, leaving her family and friends heartbroken. We will now seek to bring the defendant to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Quincy James Davis, 58, of, Gwynn Oak, Maryland. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on January 19, 2024. He faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 9, 2023, at approximately 12:00 p.m., the defendant allegedly had a verbal dispute with a 35-year-old man over a parking spot at a Home Depot parking lot, located at 230 Nostrand Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. After parking his car, the man went into Home Depot. The defendant allegedly entered Home Depot and then turned around and left the store.
The man then left Home Depot and returned to his parked car, where his girlfriend, Imani Sharpless, 26, was waiting. He drove around the corner to Willoughby Avenue and Sandford Street. The defendant approached the victim’s car, walked toward the driver’s side of the vehicle and allegedly opened fire. The driver suffered a gunshot wound to his leg and a graze wound to his back. Ms. Sharpless suffered a gunshot wound to the head and was taken to Kings County Hospital. She died of her injuries on September 14, 2023.
The defendant was arrested on September 26, 2023 in Brooklyn following an investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Intelligence Analyst Austin Fedchock of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab and Paralegal James Morales of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau for their assistance on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino of the Homicide Bureau and Senior Assistant District Attorney Jessica Wishart of the Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
