Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Violent Assault of 55-Year-Old - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 22, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison
Following Guilty Plea to Violent Assault of 55-Year-Old
Defendant Punched Victim Inside Subway Station, Then Stabbed Him Repeatedly
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for punching and stabbing a man at the Jay Street Subway Station in Downtown Brooklyn last year. The defendant pleaded guilty to assault for the unprovoked attack in July.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Keeping the people of Brooklyn safe is my highest priority, and violent offenders such as this defendant will face serious consequences. Today’s sentence holds him responsible for this frightening and random attack and ensures he will not be able to victimize others in our communities.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Roland Henegan, 35, formerly of the Kingsborough Men’s Shelter in Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis to 10 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree assault on July 26, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 5, 2022, at approximately 6 p.m., the victim, a 55-year-old man, was entering the Jay Street Subway Station going home from work when he saw the defendant suddenly open an emergency door inside the station. The victim continued walking down a staircase when the defendant began walking up the staircase. The defendant, unprovoked, attempted to punch the victim in the face. The defendant then grabbed the victim and punched him.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the defendant then stabbed the victim in the face and in the back. Following the attack, the defendant fled the scene and was later identified as the suspect in this Brooklyn assault.
The victim was treated for numerous injuries, and needed multiple stitches to his face and back, as well as having his jaw wired and screwed shut for several months.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Aleena Peerzada, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
