Bronx Man Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder for Shooting at Kings Plaza Mall - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, January 10, 2023
Bronx Man Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder for Shooting at Kings Plaza Mall
Two Teenage Boys Wounded When Defendant Opened Fire Inside Sneaker Store
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man was sentenced to 9 years in prison for a 2022 shooting inside a crowded Brooklyn mall that wounded two teenage boys and sent dozens of other shoppers running in fear for their lives. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted murder in November.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant shot two teenagers and terrorized everyone around when he opened fire on a group in a crowded mall store. We have no tolerance for violence and this sentence sends a clear message that gun crime in Brooklyn will be met with serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Timothy Briggs, 20, of Claremont Village, Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 9 years in prison and five years of post-release supervision, following his guilty plea to second-degree attempted murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 30, 2022. The defendant will also serve three-and-a-half years concurrent on another conviction of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 31, 2022, at approximately 2:30 p.m., inside the Kings Plaza Shopping Center, the defendant and two co-defendants got into an argument with a group of six teenage boys at the Laced Up sneaker store.  The defendant then pulled out a 40-caliber handgun and fired as many as 10 times at the group, striking a 14-year-old boy in the leg. A second boy, 16, suffered a graze wound to the leg.
According to the investigation, the defendant and two co-defendants then fled the mall before being apprehended less than three blocks away. Police recovered two guns at the scene, including the 40-caliber handgun fired by the defendant. The shooting was also captured on surveillance video.
The two victims were taken to local hospitals where they were treated and released.
Co-defendants, Jaheim Covington, 20, and Omarion Harvey, 19, have both pleaded not guilty in connection with the shooting and are awaiting trial.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Edward Kerins, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred Deingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
