Connecticut Man Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison For Assault Stemming from Attempted Carjacking - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, June 12, 2023
Connecticut Man Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison
For Assault Stemming from Attempted Carjacking
Defendant Injured Four People, Including Toddler, Then Attempted Second Carjacking
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Connecticut man has been sentenced to 9 years in prison for injuring four people, including a toddler, while attempting to carjack a vehicle in Coney Island. The defendant pleaded guilty to assault in April.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Keeping the people of Brooklyn safe is my top priority, and individuals like this defendant, who endangered so many people on a busy summer night in Coney Island, must face serious consequences. Today’s sentence holds him responsible for his actions and ensures he will not be able to harm others in our communities.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kahlil Ivey, 26, of Waterbury, Connecticut. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses to 9 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree assault on April 3, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 18, 2021, at approximately 10:30 p.m., in the vicinity of Surf Avenue and West 15th Street, a 43-year-old man was preparing to place his 2-year-old daughter and 18-month-old niece in the rear of his Chrysler when the defendant jumped into the driver’s seat and tried to steal the vehicle.
The victim then got into the backseat of the car and attempted to stop the defendant. As the two struggled, the defendant put the car in reverse and jumped the curb, striking and seriously injuring a woman, who suffered a brain injury. Two other women – the victim’s sister and fiancé – were also injured. Both suffered multiple abrasions about their arms and legs. The two-year-old suffered scratches about her head.
The defendant then attempted to carjack another vehicle, a Honda driven by a 19-year-old woman, by trying to drag her out of the car by her arms and ankles. Police were flagged down during the struggle and apprehended the defendant.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Omar Harding, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Bureau Chief.
#
