Martense Beverly Bosses Gang Member Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison for Shooting Death of Rival Gang Member - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, July 10, 2023
Martense Beverly Bosses Gang Member Sentenced to 15 Years to
Life in Prison for Shooting Death of Rival Gang Member
Defendant Belonged to East Flatbush-based Gang, Was Convicted following Bench Trial;
Seventeen Co-Defendants in Conspiracy Case Pleaded Guilty to Various Charges
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man who was a member of the Martense Beverly Bosses gang based in East Flatbush has been sentenced to 15 years to life for the murder of a 20-year-old gang rival in 2017.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentencing is the final disposition of a takedown of a gang that operated in Brooklyn with reckless disregard for life while hunting and shooting rivals. This defendant will now spend many years in prison for his callous actions that took the life of a young man and endangered many others.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gymanni Carrington, 22, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Justice Dineen Riviezzo to 15 years to life in prison plus a term of 12 to 24 years in prison, to run concurrently. He was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree conspiracy, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and fourth-degree conspiracy on June 26, 2023, after a bench trial. The defendant was indicted in June 2018 along with 17 co-defendants following a lengthy investigation into the violence committed by members of the Martense Beverly Bosses street gang. His co-defendants previously pleaded guilty to various charges.
The District Attorney said that on September 16, 2017, at approximately 4:25 a.m., the defendant murdered Donavan Frazier, 20, by shooting him as he was exiting Franklin’s Finest Deli at 790 Franklin Avenue in Crown Heights. Frazier was allegedly a Lincoln Fam gang member and a rival of the defendant’s gang. The defendant fired six shots from a .40 caliber handgun into the deli, striking Frazier once. The bullet entered his upper arm and reentered his torso, perforating his lungs and major blood vessels, causing his death.
The defendant was captured on surveillance video firing into the deli, according to the evidence. He claimed credit for the murder in calls recorded by the New York City Department of Corrections, on social media posts, and made admissions in emails to his mother just after the shooting, according to the evidence.
The defendant and his co-defendants were named in a 2018 indictment in which they were variously charged with conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to possess weapons, and other charges in connection with eight separate shootings, including two fatalities.
The evidence presented at trial included that during the conspiracy the defendant was a member of the Martense Beverly Bosses, which operated primarily in and around the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Between June 1, 2016 and June 14, 2018, during the course of the conspiracy, the evidence showed that the defendant engaged in conversations with incarcerated co-defendants and discussed shootings and other acts of violence between the gang and their rivals. Additionally, the evidence showed that the defendant and his co-defendants discussed the procurement and possession of firearms to further their goals of committing acts of violence against their rivals.
His co-defendants pleaded guilty to various charges including second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, first-degree manslaughter and criminal possession of a weapon and received various sentences ranging from one to three years to as many as 13 years in prison. One defendant was sentenced to probation.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Sean Feliciano and Detective Veerana Ramayya, of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, under the supervision of Sergeant Richard Young and Lieutenant Richard Zacarese, and the overall supervision of former GVSD Commanding Officer James Essig, now Chief of Detectives.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Sabeeha Madni, First Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s School Advocacy & Juvenile Crimes Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Gillian DiPietro, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Chief of the Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau.
#
