Wrong Way Driver Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison for Striking and Killing Three-Month-Old Baby, Seriously Injuring Her Mother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 14, 2023
Wrong Way Driver Sentenced to 9 Years in Prison for Striking and Killing
Three-Month-Old Baby, Seriously Injuring Her Mother
Defendant Crashed into Another Vehicle, Causing Both Cars to Jump the Curb,
As Mother, Father and Child were Crossing the Street
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to nine years in prison for driving against traffic on a one-way street and colliding with another vehicle, jumping the curb, and striking a family walking with a stroller. A baby, 3-month-old Apolline Mong Guillemin, died and her mother sustained serious injuries.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “
This defendant’s reckless driving took the life of a precious young child, seriously injured her mother and devastated both parents. We are committed to improving the safety of Brooklyn’s streets, and I hope the family finds a measure of solace with today’s sentencing, knowing this defendant will be off the streets for a long time.
”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tyrik Mott, 30, of Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to nine years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first- and second-degree assault, second-degree manslaughter, second-degree attempted robbery, reckless driving, second-degree aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle, and leaving the scene of an incident without reporting on March 22, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 11, 2021 at approximately 6 p.m., the defendant drove a Honda Civic eastbound on a portion of Gates Avenue that is a westbound one-way street. He entered the intersection at Vanderbilt Avenue, a two-way street, and collided with another Honda Civic driving north with the light. The two cars then jumped the curb and struck a couple walking with a stroller on Gates Avenue.
Three-month-old Apolline Mong Guillemin died of her injuries and her mother suffered serious injuries and was taken to Methodist Hospital. Her father sustained minor injuries. The driver of the Honda the defendant collided with was also injured.
After the crash, the defendant ran out of his vehicle and fled on foot, discarding a dark colored jersey he was wearing. He then attempted to carjack a Hyundai Santa Fe on Atlantic Avenue, about two blocks away. As he was doing so, he was apprehended by responding police officers. His driver’s license was suspended at the time of the incident.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Lana Schlesinger, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau (formerly of the Homicide Bureau) and Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
