Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison For Attempted Murder of Wife’s Colleague - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, August 25, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison
For Attempted Murder of Wife’s Colleague
Defendant Ambushed the Victim Outside of His Dyker Heights Home,
Stabbed Him Repeatedly and Left Him Bleeding Out in Driveway
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for repeatedly stabbing and severely injuring his ex-wife’s work colleague, with whom she carpooled to the office. Victim was rushed to the hospital after his 16-year-old daughter found him bleeding heavily in the driveway of their house.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a life-altering attack on a completely innocent man who was lucky to be found by his daughter. I am committed to keeping the people of Brooklyn safe from violence. With today’s sentence the defendant has been found accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jianqing Chen, 43, of Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully
to 15 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon, and second-degree aggravated harassment on July 7, 2023, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that between February 1, 2022 and March 3, 2022, the defendant was responsible for approximately 159 harassing phone calls and 500 text messages sent to his 34-year-old estranged wife in which he insulted her and threatened violence against her and her acquaintances, according to the evidence. He also showed up at her Dyker Heights home unannounced and knocked on her window. The defendant and his ex-wife had been married for 10 years before separating in 2019 and shared two children.
On March 3, 2022, at approximately 6 p.m., the defendant left his home on 68
th
Street and walked to the victim’s home on 67
th
Street. The victim arrived home at about 6:15 p.m. and walked into his shared driveway, according to the evidence, where he was ambushed by the defendant who snuck up from behind and stabbed the victim in the neck, the head, face, back, and arm, causing massive bleeding. The defendant, who cut his own hand during the attack, then fled the scene.
The victim was found a few minutes later when his daughter arrived home. She called 911 and he was taken to the hospital and treated, according to the evidence.
The defendant, meanwhile, eventually went to NYU Langone Hospital, where he told authorities he was robbed by two black men armed with a knife.
Following an investigation, the defendant was arrested for the attack. Evidence included his DNA that was recovered from the knife found at the crime scene and he was also captured on surveillance video during the attack.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Han Zhang and Aleena Peerzada of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Chief of the Blue Zone.
#
