Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder and Criminal Sexual Act - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 15, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Attempted Murder and Criminal Sexual Act
Defendant Broke into Marine Park House with Two Co-Defendants, Stabbed
Retired Police Lieutenant and Sexually Assaulted his Wife
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 18 years in prison for breaking into a home in Marine Park in 2018 with two other people, duct taping the elderly residents and assaulting them.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant violated the sanctity of this couple’s home and subjected them to unconscionable violence. With today’s lengthy sentence, he has now been brought to justice and the victims will be spared the anguish of a trial.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tyrique Rushing, 25, of the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 18 years in prison and 15 years of post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree attempted murder, first-degree criminal sexual act and first-degree burglary on April 24, 2023. He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
His co-defendants, Lance Jyrkenin, 25, and Shirnel Sobers, 30, previously pleaded guilty. Jyrkenin pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted murder, first-degree burglary and second-degree burglary on December 11, 2019 and was sentenced to 12 years in prison. Sobers pleaded guilty to first-degree burglary on September 12, 2022 and was sentenced to nine years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 24, 2018, at approximately 11:30 p.m., the defendants Jyrkenin and Sobers broke into the Marine Park home of a 72-year-old retired police lieutenant and his 71-year-old wife and stole cash and the victims’ Honda Civic. The vehicle was later found abandoned in lower Manhattan.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, on a second date, on October 8, 2018, at approximately 4 a.m., the defendants Jyrkenin and Sobers, along with defendant Rushing broke into the same home and tied up both victims, who were in separate bedrooms, using duct tape. Rushing forced the woman to perform a sex act and her husband was slashed on his head and face.
The defendants stole cash, a set of speakers, a Bank of America card and the Honda Civic.
The 72-year-old victim was treated for lacerations to his head and face and received 40 stitches. His wife was treated for bruising on her hands and wrists from the duct tape and underwent a sexual assault evidence collection kit.
Jyrkinen and Sobers were arrested on October 8, 2018, at approximately 10 p.m., outside of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel inside of the victims’ Honda Civic. Rushing was arrested in Joplin, Missouri on October 18, 2018.
The District Attorney thanked Special Victims Bureau Paralegal Lucia Battaglia and DNA Specialist Susan Horan of the KCDA Forensic Science Unit for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Deborah Cohen, Counsel to the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, Assistant District Attorney Ebonie Legrand, Deputy Chief of the SVB, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Chelsea Jacobi, also of the SVB, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
