Bath Beach Driver Sentenced to 3 to 9 Years in Prison for Causing Crash That Killed Passenger While Fleeing from NYPD on Eastern Parkway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 8, 2023
Bath Beach Driver Sentenced to 3 to 9 Years in Prison for Causing Crash That Killed Passenger While Fleeing from NYPD on Eastern
Parkway
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Reckless Manslaughter in September
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bath Beach man has been sentenced to 3 to 9 years in prison following his guilty plea to second-degree manslaughter for causing a collision with another car while fleeing from police on Eastern Parkway in 2022. One of the defendant’s passengers, 18, was killed in the crash.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s recklessness behind the wheel and complete disregard for public safety cost an innocent young woman her life and seriously injured several others. He has now been held accountable and my office will continue to prosecute crimes involving vehicular violence to ensure the safety of Brooklyn’s streets.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ackeem Chambers, 20, of Bath Beach, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to three to nine years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter on September 9, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on February 6, 2022, at approximately 2:08 a.m., the defendant was driving a 2015 Hyundai Sonata erratically on Eastern Parkway. The car, which was carrying three passengers, had a temporary Texas license plate and excessively tinted windows. According to the evidence, officers from the New York City Police Department attempted a traffic stop. The defendant then accelerated and drove through a red light at the intersection of Eastern Parkway and Rogers Avenue where he collided with a 2007 Toyota Solara that had the right of way. The defendant’s vehicle spun and struck a streetlight before the airbags deployed.
One of the defendant’s backseat passengers, Jada Rollins, 18, was taken to Kings County Hospital where she was pronounced dead. A 20-year-old passenger suffered severe head trauma. A third passenger was also taken to Kings County Hospital and treated, as was the driver of the Toyota Solara. The defendant suffered minor injuries.
Investigators later determined that the defendant was driving at approximately 62.7 miles per hour before the crash and there was no indication that the vehicle’s brakes were deployed.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Denise Montano, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi and Assistant District Attorney Iris Das, Deputy Bureau Chiefs of the Orange Zone, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Chief of the Orange Zone, and Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Nocella, Chief of the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau.
#
