Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 35 Years to Life in Prison for Flatlands Shooting That Killed Gang Rival Sitting in Car with Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 27, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 35 Years to Life in Prison for Flatlands Shooting That Killed Gang Rival Sitting in Car with Girlfriend
At Least Nine Shots from Large Caliber Handguns were Fired into Vehicle
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 35 years to life in prison for a shooting that left a 21-year-old man dead. The defendant and his alleged accomplice opened fire into a car parked in Flatlands where the victim was sitting with his girlfriend. The victim managed to push his girlfriend out of the car before collapsing, shielding her from the gunfire.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a horrific and completely senseless act of violence unleashed upon two defenseless victims at pointblank range. Gang violence destroys too many young lives in Brooklyn and fighting against that remains my highest priority. I hope today’s prison sentence makes clear that those who terrorize our communities will face very serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tristan Murray, 30, of Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare to 35 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on May 19, 2023, following a jury trial.
The case against the defendant’s alleged accomplice, Tarell Herbert, 29, also of Brooklyn, is pending trial. He is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, and related charges.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 2, 2016, at about 7 p.m., Anthony Francis, 21, was wrapping up a visit with his girlfriend in Flatlands, Brooklyn, when they entered his BMW, which was parked on the street. Francis and his girlfriend were seated in the vehicle when the defendant and his alleged accomplice drove up to the BMW at approximately 7:26 p.m. and opened fire from their passenger side window into the BMW.
Murray and his alleged accomplice were affiliated with the Folk Nation gang in Flatbush and were looking for rival gang members to shoot at the time of the incident, according to trial testimony. They spotted the victim, a member of the rival Woo gang based in Canarsie, and one of the defendants yelled “Woo, Woo, Woo,” which is a way that Woo members greet each other, according to trial testimony. Murray and his alleged accomplice then opened fire. The victim, who was struck in the chest, pushed his girlfriend out of the car just before he died. There were multiple .40 caliber and .45 caliber shell casings found at the scene and Francis’ BMW was riddled with .40 and .45 caliber bullets.
Murray was arrested a day after the shooting with a .45 caliber gun and, in the course of a lengthy investigation by the Brooklyn South Homicide Task Force and the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, that gun was traced to the homicide.
The District Attorney thanked Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau Paralegals Diane Fields-Vernon and Tania Lopez and the Kings County Detective Investigators for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Nicholas Ford and Senior Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kiley, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
