Brooklyn Man Indicted for Murder of 23-Year-Old Man - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 13, 2023
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Murder of 23-Year-Old Man
Allegedly Shot Victim Repeatedly Following Argument Outside Bike and Scooter Shop in
Crown Heights; Was Extradited to Brooklyn After Fleeing to Ohio
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 64-year-old former Brooklyn resident has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder for the 2020 shooting death of Nicholas Isaac, 23, in Crown Heights. Both men were hanging out outside the shop when they got into an argument.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Nicholas Isaac’s life was cut short far too soon and hopefully his family will find some solace with today’s indictment, knowing that for three years a team of law enforcement professionals remained vigilant in bringing his alleged killer to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Robert Bryson, 64, formerly of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin on an indictment in which he is charged with one count of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on October 27, 2023. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 18, 2020, at approximately 3 p.m., the victim and the defendant were standing in front of a bike and scooter shop located at 662 Nostrand Avenue, when they got into a dispute.
It is further alleged that the defendant returned on foot approximately an hour later, pulled out a gun and fired at the victim. The victim was struck but ran inside the store for safety. The defendant allegedly followed the victim into the store and shot him several more times as the victim was running away from him. The defendant then allegedly fled, leaving his scooter outside the store and taking another scooter.
The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital, where he underwent surgery, but was later pronounced dead.
The defendant was arrested in Cleveland, Ohio on August 22, 2023, by members of the Northern Ohio Fugitive Task Force of the U.S. Marshals Service. Members of the U.S. Marshals NY NJ Regional Fugitive Task Force assisted in the apprehension. The defendant was extradited to Brooklyn this week.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Cesar Valerio of the 77th Precinct Detective Squad and NYPD Detective Roxanne Joseph of the Homicide Squad.
The District Attorney thanked the Detective Investigators of the KCDA for their substantial assistance on this case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Chelsea Toder, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
