Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Murdering Her Father With Hammer and Knife, and Stabbing Her Sister - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, January 30, 2023
Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Murdering Her Father
With Hammer and Knife, and Stabbing Her Sister
Defendant Initially Claimed It Was a Home Invasion
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 22-year-old Brooklyn woman has been arraigned on an indictment charging her with murdering her father with a hammer and a knife, and with seriously wounding her sister with a knife when she tried to intervene.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is charged with brutally killing her own father and then stabbing her younger sister, allegedly following an argument over a laptop. My office will vigorously prosecute this horrific case and seek justice for the victims.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Nikki Secondino, 22, of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon. She was ordered held without bail and to return to court on April 5, 2023. The defendant faces a maximum sentence of 50 years to life in prison if convicted.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, prior to the incident the defendant and her father had a verbal argument over a laptop. On December 29, 2022, at about 5:20 a.m., the defendant allegedly attacked Carlo Secondino, 61, who was sleeping on the couch. She struck him with a hammer multiple times and proceeded to stab him with a kitchen knife, according to the evidence. He died at the scene.
The defendant’s 19-year-old sister heard a commotion in the living room, tried to intervene and was allegedly stabbed by the defendant multiple times about her body, hands and face, requiring surgery. The defendant then ran out of the house and told responding officers that two people broke into her home, killed her sister and father, and sexually assaulted her. Family members called the NYPD and questioned that account. Investigators subsequently determined that that version of events was false.
The investigation further revealed that the defendant and her father had a history of domestic incident reports. It also found that the father had expressed fear of the defendant in the past.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin-Fodeman, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
