Queens Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison for Attempted Murder of His Former Girlfriend After Breaking into Her Home - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, August 1, 2023
Queens Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison for Attempted Murder of His Former Girlfriend After Breaking into Her Home
Victim was Stabbed Repeatedly in Front of Teenage Son, Who Called 911
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Queens man was sentenced to 21 years in prison for repeatedly stabbing his ex-girlfriend after breaking into her Flatbush home. The victim, a mother of two sons, suffered severe cuts to her forehead and forearm.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for his actions, which terrorized a former girlfriend and her 15-year-old son and nearly took her life. He also showed his blatant disregard for the rule of law by absconding during his trial. I am committed to seeking justice for all victims of domestic violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Muneshwar Bira, 37, of St. Albans, Queens. He was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon on July 10, 2023, following a bench trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phyllis Chu. He was sentenced today to 21 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 4, 2021, at approximately 11 a.m., on East 21st Street in Flatbush, Brooklyn, the defendant broke into his 40-year-old ex-girlfriend’s basement apartment with a knife in hand. Upon first seeing his ex-girlfriend the defendant took the knife and tried to stab the victim about her head. The victim raised her forearm onto her head to protect it, causing the knife to lacerate her forearm and her forehead. The victim then fell to the floor. After one knife broke, the defendant proceeded to use two additional knives to stab the victim. She continued to fight for her life while calling out to her 15-year-old son for help.
The victim’s son called 911 and when the police arrived, according to the evidence, the defendant, the victim, and the apartment were covered in blood. The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital and treated for severe injuries, including a life-threatening injury to her right arm.
During his trial, on April 5, 2023, the defendant failed to return to court following an afternoon break and a bench warrant was issued for his arrest on April 10, 2023. He was picked up on the warrant in Florida and had to be extradited back to New York.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Hannah Laufer, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, with the assistance of 1st Deputy Bureau Chief Mark Pagliuco and Deputy Bureau Chief Lisa Perlman, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Chief of the Domestic Violence Bureau.
#
