Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for Double Murder - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 21, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison for Double Murder
Pleaded Guilty to Shooting and Stabbing His Girlfriend’s Mother and Her Stepfather,
Victims were Slain in Their Sheepshead Bay Apartment
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 22 years to life in prison for participating in the murder of his former girlfriend’s mother and her stepfather. Each of the victims was shot and stabbed.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s lengthy sentence holds this defendant accountable for his role in this brutal and horrific double murder that robbed two innocent victims of their lives. The depravity of these crimes cannot be overstated, and while no sentence can bring the victims back to their family and friends, I hope this sentence offers them some sense of solace.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jerry Maisonett, 35, of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Niki Warin to 22 years to life in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree murder on August 8, 2022.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on December 28, 2015, at approximately 3:30 p.m., the defendant, acting in concert with another person, shot and stabbed Rosie Sanchez, 38 and Anderson Nunez, 40, in their apartment located at
2364 Batchelder Street, in
Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. The defendant’s former girlfriend, Destiny Garcia, also lived in the apartment.
Rosie Sanchez was shot in the head and stabbed in the heart. Anderson Nunez was shot twice and stabbed more than 30 times.
The defendant was arrested on February 16, 2016, following an investigation.
Destiny Garcia, 22, was arrested on January 4, 2016, after she made statements about the killings to a cousin, who alerted police. She was convicted of two counts of first-degree manslaughter and one count of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial and will be sentenced on August 3, 2023.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ernest Chin, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, also of the Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
