Crown Heights Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of 19-Year-Old Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, April 10, 2023
Crown Heights Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of 19-Year-Old Girl
Defendant Also Allegedly Assaulted the Victim and Another Woman
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with sex trafficking, promoting prostitution, assault and other charges for the alleged sex trafficking and assault of a teenager as well as the assault of a 40-year-old woman.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s allegedly violent and exploitative abuse of women for profit shocks the conscience and we are committed to seeking justice on behalf of the victims and anyone impacted by human trafficking. We have no tolerance for this kind of reprehensible conduct in Brooklyn and will continue our vigorous and multi-pronged efforts to protect the most vulnerable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Samuel Tucker, 39, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was arraigned Friday afternoon before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice E. Niki Warin on a 27-count indictment in which he is charged with sex trafficking, second-, third- and fourth-degree promoting prostitution, second- and third-degree assault, second-degree attempted assault, first-, second- and third-degree coercion, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon. If convicted of the top count, he is facing a maximum sentence of 25 years in prison and will be required to register as a sex offender. The defendant was ordered held on bail of $200,000 cash or $750,000 bond and to return to court on May 10, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the 19-year-old victim was homeless and living in a shelter in Brownsville when she was introduced to the defendant, who allegedly enticed her with promises of cash and drugs if she would engage in prostitution for him. The victim allegedly moved into the defendant’s apartment in Crown Heights, where she slept on an air mattress in the living room and allegedly engaged in prostitution in the bedroom with dates that the defendant arranged for her. He also allegedly posted photos of her on in a prostitution advertisement on OneBackpage.com.
The defendant allegedly instructed her how much to charge and all the money she earned was immediately turned over to him.
It is alleged that on one occasion, the defendant allegedly beat her with a can of corn that he placed in a sock, hitting her about the body repeatedly and causing bruises to her chest and back. In another instance, it is alleged, the defendant heated a spoon using the burners on the stove and then held it to her feet, burning her.
On another occasion, it is alleged, the defendant allegedly hogtied another woman, age 40, who was also engaging in prostitution for the defendant, and placed her in a hotel room bathtub filled with scalding hot water and repeatedly held her head beneath the water in the presence of the 19-year-old victim.
In another instance, the defendant allegedly forced the 19-year-old victim to watch as he beat the 40-year-old victim about the head and body with a firearm. He then instructed her to clean and bandage the older woman’s wounds.
On January 18, 2023, the victim allegedly ran away from the defendant and contacted the New York City Police Department.
The New York City Police Department investigation was led by Detective Paul Mastronardi of the NYPD’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Robert Duplessis, Lieutenant Amy Capogna and Captain Thomas Milano.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Mary E. Monahan, of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the Human Trafficking Unit, with the assistance of Paralegal Specialist Aurora Martinez and HTU Social Worker Kirsty Carroll, and under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
