Teenager Indicted for Murder as a Hate Crime for Allegedly Stabbing O’Shae Sibley in Anti-Gay Attack at Midwood Gas Station - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, August 11, 2023
Teenager Indicted for Murder as a Hate Crime for Allegedly Stabbing
O’Shae Sibley in Anti-Gay Attack at Midwood Gas Station
Allegedly Hurled Homophobic Slurs at Victim and His Friends as One of Them Danced
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 17-year-old Brooklyn man has been indicted for murder as a hate crime and related charges for allegedly stabbing and killing dancer and choreographer O’Shae Sibley at a Midwood gas station after hurling homophobic and anti-Black slurs.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “O’Shae came to New York to follow his dream and brightened our city with his light. We honor his life, celebrate his courage, and commit to hold accountable the individual allegedly responsible for this horrific murder. O’Shae and his friends were targeted for being themselves, dancing joyfully and harming no one. There is no tolerance for hate in Brooklyn, where we value our diversity, inclusion and the freedom to be who we are.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dmitriy Popov, 17, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Craig Walker on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder as a hate crime, second-degree murder, first-degree manslaughter as a hate crime, first-degree manslaughter, fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon and related counts. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on October 10, 2023. If convicted of the top count he faces a minimum of 20 years to life and a maximum of 25 years to life.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 29, 2023, at approximately 11:06 p.m., at a Mobil gas station located at 1935 Coney Island Avenue in Midwood, Brooklyn, O’Shae Sibley and four of his friends stopped to fill up their car with gas after returning from the beach. Still in their beachwear, they stepped out to stretch their legs while listening to music, with one member of the group dancing outside their vehicle. The defendant and two associates then exited the gas station store and allegedly hurled homophobic and racist slurs at the men, saying, in sum and substance, “Get that gay s–t out of here.”
Sibley attempted to diffuse the situation and he and his friends responded, in substance, “You don’t know us, we’re just having a good time and enjoying our lives. It’s all respect, we’re allowed to be here just like you.” The defendant’s friends left at some point, but the defendant remained outside the gas station store, recording on his cell phone and allegedly continuing to antagonize the group with hateful remarks. When Sibley and two of his friends confronted the defendant, he allegedly reached into his pocket and pointed a knife at one of Sibley’s friends, threatening to stab him. The defendant then allegedly stabbed Sibley on the side of his chest, puncturing his heart, according to the evidence.
Sibley was pronounced dead at Maimonides Hospital a short time later.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Prabhalya Pulim, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief and Kelli Muse, Hate Crimes Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
