Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 55 Years to Life for Shooting Death of Innocent Mother of Four, Attempted Murder of Two Men - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 8, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 55 Years to Life for Shooting Death of Innocent Mother of Four, Attempted Murder of Two Men
Victim was Walking Home from Work When She was Struck by Stray Bullet
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 55 years to life in prison for the shooting death of a woman in Crown Heights as she was walking home from work. The defendant was firing at two men during the incident, including a 30-year-old man who was struck in the arm.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Limose Thomas, an innocent mother of four, had her life taken from her when this defendant coldly opened fire on a crowded street filled with pedestrians and bystanders, including young children, on a summer evening. My heart goes out to her family and friends, who hopefully find a measure of solace with today’s sentence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Oliver Case, 31, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 55 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree attempted murder on November 2, 2023, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 19, 2021, at approximately 8:30 p.m., in the vicinity of 1525 Saint Johns Place in Crown Heights, the defendant opened fire on two men he was chasing, firing 10 shots. As the defendant chased one of the men, the defendant struck the man in his arm and also shot an innocent bystander, Limose Thomas, 54, who was walking home from work. She was struck once in the back when she attempted to run for safety.
The defendant was arrested on November 16, 2021, following an investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Stephanie Quon, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
