Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 32 ½ Years to Life in Prison for Mass Shooting During Old Timers Day Celebration in Brownsville Park - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, July 5, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 32 ½ Years to Life in Prison for Mass Shooting During Old Timers Day Celebration in Brownsville Park
Opened Fire and Triggered a Gun Battle Which Left One Dead and
11 Others Shot and Wounded
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 32 ½ years to life in prison for fatally shooting a man during the Old Timers Day celebration in Brownsville in 2019. The shooting ignited an exchange of gunfire between rival groups which left 11 innocent bystanders shot and wounded.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “A beloved community celebration held each year turned tragic when this defendant opened fire in the middle of a crowd. Senseless gun violence that puts innocent people in harm’s way has destroyed too many lives and will not be tolerated in Brooklyn. As a result of this defendant’s outrageous actions a man lost his life, and 11 other people were shot and wounded. He has now been held accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kyle Williams, 23, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht to 32 ½years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and first-degree reckless endangerment on April 20, 2023 following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 27, 2019, at approximately 11 p.m., in the Brownsville Playground, on Hegeman Avenue and Sackman Street, the defendant confronted Jason Pagan, 38, during Old Timers Day, an annual neighborhood celebration where more than 500 community members were gathered.
Following a verbal dispute, the defendant pulled out a gun and fatally shot Pagan in the head and torso. A shootout between rival groups then erupted during which 11 innocent people, caught in the crossfire, were shot and wounded.
The defendant was arrested on October 16, 2019, after investigators received tips from members of the community. Multiple eyewitnesses identified the defendant as the initial shooter. In addition, police recovered the gun the defendant used during the fatal shooting and obtained an admission from the defendant while he was in custody.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie, Deputy Chief of the Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
