Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison for Killing Ex-Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 4, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison for Killing Ex-Girlfriend
Defendant Slashed Victim in Neck with Knife During a Dispute
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn has been sentenced to 19 years in prison for killing his ex-girlfriend by fatally slitting her throat. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter last month.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “With today’s sentence the defendant has been held responsible for the vicious and deadly stabbing of an innocent woman and mother. Today’s lengthy prison sentence is a step toward justice for the victim’s family and friends.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Romeo Borneo, 63, of Prospect Lefferts Gardens, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Abena Darkeh to 19 years in prison and five years of post-release supervision. He pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on April 3, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on November 13, 2018, at approximately 11 a.m., at 25 Lefferts Avenue, the defendant called police stating that he and the victim, Erica Renaud, 47, had a fight and that he had been cut. Police and emergency medical personnel arrived at the address and found the defendant with cut marks on his wrist.
Furthermore, during a search of the apartment, police found the vicitm’s body under a pile of blood-stained bedding and pillows on the living room floor. The victim’s throat was cut. The defendant told police he and the victim, who had recently ended their relationship, had a fight. Detectives subsequently found a broken knife in the garbage with what appeared to be blood stains on it.
The medical examiner later determined the victim’s cause of death to be a wound to the neck which led to a fatal loss of blood.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin-Fodeman, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
