Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Sex Trafficking Teenager - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 13, 2023
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Sex Trafficking Teenager
Defendant Lured Victim from Ohio to New York With Promise of Video Shoots
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for the sex trafficking of an 18-year-old girl for whom he bought a bus ticket from Ohio to New York with promises of a modeling career.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant lured an innocent teenager from her home in Ohio to New York promising to fulfill her dream of a modeling career, but instead he horrifically exploited her in a sex trafficking nightmare. Today’s lengthy sentence underscores our commitment to protecting young women and other at-risk individuals and ensuring those who engage in sex trafficking face serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Allen Barrington, 38, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 10 years in prison and 10 years’ post-release supervision. He must register as a sex offender upon his release. The defendant pleaded guilty to sex trafficking on March 29, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 3, 2022, the defendant responded to a post on an online website posted by an 18-year-old girl who was living in Ohio. He offered to pay for a Greyhound bus ticket for her to visit New York where he would help her get started in nude modeling on video.
When the girl arrived at the Port Authority Bus Terminal on June 5, 2022, he picked her up and brought her to an apartment in East New York, Brooklyn, where there was another girl that the defendant had recruited from Illinois to engage in prostitution. He told her she had to work in prostitution and took her to a track in East New York. When the victim refused, telling the defendant that this was not the agreement, the defendant threatened the victim and threatened to harm her grandparents back in Ohio.
Between June 5, 2022 and June 18, 2022, in addition to forcing her to work in prostitution in East Flatbush and East New York, the defendant was physically violent towards the victim and at one point attempted to taser her. She was forced to engage in prostitution on the track in East New York and was not allowed to stop until she earned a quota set by the defendant. The defendant took photos of the victim and the other woman and posted them on websites offering prostitution services.
Furthermore, the victim walked into the 75
th
precinct to report the defendant on June 17, 2022. He was arrested in Ohio on July 6, 2022, and was extradited to Brooklyn on July 26, 2022.
The case was investigated by Detective Courtney Thorpe of the New York City Police Department’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Robert Duplessis, Lieutenant Amy Capogna and Captain Thomas Milano.
Paralegal Specialist Aurora Martinez of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit assisted in the investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Detective Christina Chavez and Detective Nicholas Cox of the Peoria, Illinois Police Department, Major Jeff Allen and Agent Kelly Jankowski from the Mahoning Valley Ohio Human Trafficking Task Force, and the Ohio State Highway Patrol for their assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, along with Senior Assistant District Attorney Alexandra Iorio, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau.
#
