Manhattan Man Indicted for Murder of Off-Duty Police Officer During Attempted Robbery in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 14, 2023
Manhattan Man Indicted for Murder of Off-Duty Police Officer
During Attempted Robbery in East New York
Defendant Allegedly Lured Victim to Scene
By Advertising Car for Sale on Facebook Marketplace
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Manhattan man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder, attempted robbery and other charges for fatally shooting an off-duty police officer who went to East New York to purchase a vehicle. He has also been indicted for a second robbery under similar circumstances.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Police Officer Adeed Fayaz’ death is a terrible and tragic loss for his family, friends, NYPD colleagues, and the public he selflessly served. My thoughts are with all who are grieving his loss and my office will vigorously seek justice on his behalf.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Randy Jones, 38, of East Harlem, New York. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with first- and second-degree murder, first-degree attempted robbery, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, first-degree robbery and third-degree grand larceny. The defendant is being held without bail and was ordered to return to court on May 17, 2023. He faces up to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 4, 2023, at approximately 7 p.m., in the vicinity of 452 Ruby Street, in East New York, Brooklyn, Officer Fayaz and his brother-in-law proceeded to meet with the seller of a Honda Pilot advertised for $24,000 on Facebook Marketplace. They left the cash in Officer Fayaz’ car.
It is alleged that the defendant, who advertised the vehicle and arranged the meeting, pulled a gun and demanded money. When told they didn’t have the money, the defendant allegedly shot Officer Fayaz in the head and fled. The brother-in-law grabbed Officer Fayaz’ gun and engaged in a gun battle with the defendant, who fled the scene.
Officer Fayaz, 26, was taken to Brookdale Hospital and was pronounced dead on February 7, 2023.
The defendant was apprehended by police in a hotel in Rockland County on February 7, 2023.
The defendant was also indicted for another incident that occurred on January 13, 2023, for allegedly luring another person to the same location after advertising a Honda Odyssey for sale on Facebook Marketplace. When the buyer arrived at the scene, the defendant allegedly pulled a gun and demanded money, robbing him of approximately $18,000.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegals Jannette Ayala and Amanda Connolly for their assistance on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Midey, also of the Homicide Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
