Brooklyn Man Indicted for Murdering Elderly Neighbor, Stabbing One Woman and Attempting to Assault Another - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 9, 2023
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Murdering Elderly Neighbor,
Stabbing One Woman and Attempting to Assault Another
Defendant Also Indicted for Punching Police Officer in the Face
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with murder for the stabbing death of an 83-year-old man. The defendant was also indicted for assault and attempted assault in connection with three other incidents.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I am heartbroken that 83-year-old Ramon Cintron died in such a violent and horrifying way and my condolences go out to his family, friends and neighbors. We will now seek to hold the defendant responsible for the murder of Mr. Cintron, as well as the other alleged attacks with which he is charged.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Joevani Vale, 27, of Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree assault, third-degree criminal possession of a weapon, third-degree attempted assault, second-degree harassment, third-degree attempted assault and fourth-degree stalking. He is being held without bail and was ordered to return to court on September 29, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 8, 2023, at approximately 12:47 p.m., a woman was walking in the vicinity of Third Avenue and Pacific Street in Brooklyn when the defendant allegedly began following her and asking if she was lost. She said she was not lost. The defendant allegedly continued to follow her, so she stopped to let him pass and he allegedly punched her in the shoulder.
Furthermore, it is alleged, that at approximately 1:25 p.m., in the vicinity of 134 Nevins Street, the defendant allegedly was walking behind a woman when he allegedly slashed her on the back of her thigh. She was treated at a local hospital.
At approximately 2:20 p.m., it is alleged, the defendant followed Ramon Cintron into an elevator at 185 Nevins Street, at the Wyckoff Gardens Housing Development, where they both resided, and took out a sharp object and allegedly stabbed the victim in the neck, torso, back and legs, approximately 30 times. When the victim tried to get out of the elevator when the doors opened, the defendant allegedly kicked the victim back into the elevator and fled.
The defendant was arrested on April 11, 2023. On April 12, 2023, at about 11:45 p.m., the defendant was in the psychiatric ward at Maimonides Medical Center and was being guarded by two New York City police officers. They escorted him to the bathroom and after he finished using the bathroom, he allegedly made a fist and punched one of the officers in the face.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegals Sarah Quashie and James Morales for their assistance on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Robert Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
