Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Shooting and Killing Romantic Rival in the Gowanus Houses - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 11, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for
Shooting and Killing Romantic Rival in the Gowanus Houses
Pleaded Guilty to Manslaughter in February
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brownsville man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for fatally shooting a 34-year-old romantic rival during an argument at his ex-girlfriend’s apartment in 2020.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant’s guilty plea and today’s sentence hold him accountable for a senseless act that took the life of an innocent man. In Brooklyn, we are deeply committed to ending this type of violence. I commend the NYPD for swiftly apprehending this defendant so that he could be brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Rudolph Riley, 32, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on February 23, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 26, 2020, at approximately 3:45 p.m., the defendant and his ex-girlfriend were arguing inside her apartment at the Gowanus Houses on Hoyt Street. The defendant had recently dropped off the two-year-old child he shared with his ex. When the woman’s boyfriend, Cory Turner, 34, tried to intervene, the defendant shot him in the arm and chest with a 40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun. Turner was taken to Brooklyn Methodist Hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.
The defendant fled the scene, leaving the child at the apartment. He was stopped a short time later on Henry Street by a detective from the 76th Precinct who recognized the defendant’s description from a radio alert. As they were speaking, the defendant dropped an item wrapped in a red bandana from under his arm. The detective picked it up and observed it to be a 40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun. The defendant was arrested at the scene. Ballistic analysis later matched the handgun to the shooting.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegal Amanda Connolly for her assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Perry of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
