Fifteen Alleged H-Block/Billy’s Gang Members Charged in Conspiracy Indictment That Includes Two Murders and Multiple Shootings - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 29, 2024
Fifteen Alleged H-Block/Billy’s Gang Members Charged in
Conspiracy Indictment That Includes Two Murders and Multiple Shootings
Three Rival Gates Fam and Gotti Gang Members Charged in Separate Indictments;
Defendants Variously Charged with Murder, Attempted Murder, and Conspiracy
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Edward A. Caban, today announced that 18 alleged members of the H-Block/Billy’s and Gates Fam street gangs are variously charged in three indictments with conspiracy to commit murder, possess weapons and related charges. In addition to the two murders, the defendants are variously charged in connection with 10 shooting incidents that left 10 people injured – including eight innocent bystanders.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This case sends a strong message that shooting guns in our streets cannot and will not be tolerated. It is shocking how young many of the defendants are, and today’s takedown is part of our comprehensive approach to youth violence – holding accountable those who commit shootings and working with other young people to steer them away from street gangs. Senseless gun violence ruins lives and causes damage in our communities and I remain committed to tackling this issue head-on. I thank the NYPD and our prosecutors for their hard work in putting this case together to make our streets safer as we enter the summer season.”
Commissioner Caban said, “Identifying, investigating, and dismantling gangs and crews, and preventing the senseless violence so often associated with their illegal activities, continue to be among the highest priorities for the NYPD and our law enforcement partners. I commend our NYPD investigators and our colleagues in the office of the Brooklyn district attorney for their ongoing dedication to our shared public safety mission. We remain relentless in our efforts to eradicate gun violence and to improve quality of life for all New Yorkers by precisely targeting the relatively small percentage of people responsible for much of the violence in our city.”
New York City Mayor Eric Adams said, “New York City will not tolerate the reckless endangerment of those who choose a path of violence and chaos. Today’s action underscores our unwavering commitment to stopping and holding accountable those who threaten our communities. The safety and well-being of every New Yorker is our top priority, and we will continue to work tirelessly to bring those who break the law to justice. I commend the collaborative efforts of the NYPD, DA Gonzalez, and all law enforcement agencies involved in this critical operation, which will ensure that our streets remain safe and that justice is served for the victims and their families. Let this be a clear message to those who seek to disrupt the peace in our communities: we will find you, we will prosecute you, and we will protect our city.”
The defendants will be arraigned this afternoon before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justices Danny K. Chun and Craig S. Walker on an 85-count indictment in which they are variously charged with second degree murder, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, second-degree assault and related counts. [See defendant addendum,]
The District Attorney said the indictment is the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division into violence committed by street gangs operating on the border of Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn. Fifteen of the defendants are alleged members of the H-Block/Billy’s gang, a territorial alliance between a 59-Brim Bloods set and a 9-Trey/Billy’s Bloods set operating out of Crown Heights. The H-Block Billy’s have several “home bases” that they have frequented over the course of this investigation, including 260-280 Herkimer Street and 1625 Fulton Street.
The other three defendants are alleged members of the Gates Fam street gang (and Gotti Gang), a subset of the Bloods, whose territory includes the Louis Armstrong Houses and 523 Gates Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
It is alleged, according to the indictment, that the H-Block/Billy’s defendants conspired to murder opposition gang members, boasting about or discussing the conspiracy in social media posts, recorded jail conversations, and on cell phones. The defendants also, it is alleged, variously possessed photos and videos of themselves holding guns, using guns or discussing guns in messages.
It is alleged that between August 2021 and the date of this indictment, the H-Block/Billy’s defendants, variously committed multiple shootings and acts of violence against rival gang members or within rival gang territory to maintain dominance over their geographical territory and to maintain supremacy over rivals.
The conspiracy allegedly began in August 2021 with a series of three shootings by the H-Block/Billy’s alliance within a two-hour period. The shootings resulted in the death of Jaquan Gause, a 16-year-old Gates Fam member, and non-fatal injuries to three other individuals, including an innocent person who was mistaken for a gang rival.
The second homicide charged in the indictment is the June 25, 2022, shooting death of 16-year-old Woo associate Nayshawn Campbell, who was shot in the torso by a single bullet inside the Dr. Green Playground in Brownsville, at approximately 3:14 a.m. He was taken to Brookdale Hospital where he was pronounced dead at approximately 4:12 a.m. H-Block members Nyshaun Perry, Demetri JeanJacques and Isaiah Charles, who were “spinning” (looking for opposition members to shoot) in Woo gang territory, are charged in connection with the homicide.
It is alleged that H-Block/Billy’s members committed numerous shootings during the course of the conspiracy, including the following:
It is alleged that on April 12, 2022, defendants Malcolm Davis and Shamari Griffith left 260 Herkimer Street and headed to 471 Gates Avenue in Gates Fam territory and, at approximately 4:20 p.m., allegedly opened fire on a group of people. Three innocent people were struck and wounded. A 29-year-old man was shot in the back and suffered a spinal cord injury, a 42-year-old man suffered a graze wound to his right arm, and a 45-year-old man suffered a gunshot wound to his right thigh.
It is alleged that on August 18, 2022, at approximately 1:45 a.m.in the vicinity of Farragut Place and East 32nd Street, in rival Folk Nation gang territory, defendants Nyshaun Perry and Jamouri Foster allegedly opened fire on a 2022 Dodge Charger, occupied by four individuals. The back window was shattered and there was bullet damage to the front passenger side of the windshield. A bullet also struck a passenger’s headrest, but no one was injured.
It is alleged that on August 21, 2022, at approximately 6:27 p.m., defendants Isaiah Charles and Demitri JeanJacques, and an unidentified individual, were in the vicinity of Washington Avenue and Saint John’s Place when they opened fire on individuals involved in a video shoot of a rapper associated with rival gang Lincoln Fam. The three shooters allegedly opened fire on a crowd of people, striking a then-25-year-old videographer in the leg. Four cars in the vicinity were damaged by gunfire and police recovered 13 shell casings, one fired bullet fragment, and one live cartridge from the scene.
On October 2, 2023, at approximately 10:45 a.m., in the vicinity of Chauncey Street and Stuyvesant Avenue, Gates Fam member David Robinson used his vehicle to allegedly attempt to run over H-Block member Michael Hammond. Robinson then crashed his vehicle into a Citi Bike rack and a Fire Department pole, which was knocked to the ground. Several bicycles were damaged. In response, it is alleged, Hammond fired shots at Robinson’s car and struck him in the shoulder.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detective Lena Alexander and Detective Erin Currie, under the supervision of Sergeant Kevin Beasley, Lieutenant William Tergesen, Captain Ryan Gillis, all of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, and Deputy Inspector Craig Edelman, Commanding Officer of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, all under the overall supervision of Assistant Chief Jason Savino, Commanding Officer of the Specialty Enforcement Division, and Chief of Detectives Joseph Kenny.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Christine Maloney, Chief of Special Investigations, Senior Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kiley, and Assistant District Attorney Alexis Zargar, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, with the assistance of Intelligence Analyst Austin Wilson and Paralegal Sultana Wahab, all under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kathryn Spota, Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
H-Block/Billy’s
Nyshaun Perry, 20.
Demitri JeanJacques, 18.
Isaiah Charles, 17.
Jamouri Foster, 17.
Damian Nickelson, 17.
Jayden Clarence, 16.
Shamari Griffith, 21.
Malcolm Davis, 19.
Shamar Dudley, 20.
Derrick Prescod, 20.
Dushaun Johnston, 23.
Kymani Glenn, 22.
Jahnie Cox, 21.
Michael Hammond, 20.
Jaiden Jefferies, 18.
Gates Fam/Gotti Gang
Gyasi Shury-Muse, 21.
Kaevon Mitchell, 19.
David Robinson, 21.
