Eleven Alleged Gang Members from Two Rival Gangs Named in Conspiracy Indictment That Includes Murder, Multiple Shootings and Gun Possession - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 29, 2024
Eleven Alleged Gang Members from Two Rival Gangs Named in Conspiracy Indictment That Includes Murder, Multiple Shootings and Gun Possession
Defendants Variously Charged with Acts of Violence in and Around Crown Heights
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and New York City Police Commissioner Edward A. Caban announced today that 11 alleged members of two opposing street gangs are variously charged in two indictments with conspiracy to commit murder, possess weapons and related acts of violence. The defendants are variously charged in connection with seven shooting incidents, many of which were retaliatory in nature, which left three people shot, one fatally.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s indictments send a clear message: We will not allow our communities to be terrorized by senseless gang violence. We allege that those charged individuals have shown a blatant disregard for human life, leaving a trail of fear and devastation in their wake. My office, in partnership with the NYPD, will continue to pursue justice relentlessly, ensuring that those who endanger the lives of innocent residents are held accountable. I commend the NYPD and our prosecutors for their outstanding work.”
Commissioner Caban said, “Today’s indictments reflect the tireless efforts of the NYPD’s many dedicated investigators, who focus sharply on the real drivers of crime and disorder in New York City. We are relentless in this work because New Yorkers deserve to live and work in a city free from the threat of gun violence. I commend our detectives and thank everyone at the Brooklyn district attorney’s office for their commitment to our shared public safety mission.”
The defendants will be arraigned this afternoon before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on two indictments in which they are variously charged with second-degree murder, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and related counts. [See defendant addendum].
The District Attorney said the indictments are the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Brooklyn North Violent Crime Squad into violence committed by rival street gangs operating in and around Crown Heights.
The District Attorney identified the two rival gangs as “Stain Gang,” a neighborhood-based confederacy that includes members of “9Trey,” “Gorilla Stone,” and “Mac Balla,” respectively; and “Albany Gang,” whose members include Blood sets such as “AMG,” and “59 Brims.” Seven of the defendants charged are alleged members of the Stain Gang, while four defendants are alleged members of their opposition, Albany Gang. Stain Gang territory encompasses the vicinity of Sterling Place, between Rochester Avenue and Buffalo Avenue, while Albany Gang territory operates just blocks away, concentrated in and around the New York City Housing Authority Albany I & Albany II developments.
The investigation revealed that the close geographical proximity coupled with the murder of Stain member Tyquan Howard (“Ty-Sixx”) by alleged Albany Gang members on May 12, 2020 unleased a series of shootings and retaliatory violence between the members of the two groups.
It is alleged, according to the indictments, that members of the rival gangs conspired to murder opposition gang members, often taunting opposing members on social media platforms. These taunts included insulting deceased rival gang members and calling out perceived inaction to opposition violence, often instigating a violent response. The investigation also revealed that members from both gangs utilized New York City Department of Corrections phone lines to continue their criminal conduct, discussing the conspiracy even while incarcerated by updating fellow gang members at liberty on the status of gang rivalries and discussing ongoing violent acts against rival gang members.
Among the crimes charged in the indictment is the August 10, 2023 homicide of alleged Stain member Shaheim Rogers and the non-fatal shooting of alleged Stain member Olujimi Lucas, by alleged Albany Gang member Ibrahima Barry. It is alleged that Barry stole a parked SUV and drove to the Albany Houses headquarters, where he picked up fellow Albany members. In the early evening, Barry is charged with “spinning” on Sterling Place, known Stain Territory, with fellow Albany Gang members. There, the group opened fire on Lucas, who was shot multiple times, and fatally struck Rogers, whose lungs collapsed as a result.
It is alleged that Stain and Albany members committed numerous targeted shootings in an effort to shoot and kill their perceived rivals during the course of the conspiracy in furtherance of their gang objectives, including the following:
June 29, 2021 at 8:12 p.m. at 1448 Sterling Place: It is alleged that after a confrontation two days earlier between Albany member Elijah McDonald and Stain member Olujimi Lucas, which resulted in Lucas taking possession of McDonald’s firearm and at least one shot being fired, Lucas directed fellow Stain member Jahrell Madison to shoot at McDonald’s car multiple times as it drove through Stain Gang territory. Several rounds struck McDonald’s car.
March 14, 2022 at 8:37 p.m. at 1566 Sterling Place: It is alleged that Albany Gang member Patrick Daniels drove to Stain Gang territory, walked into the courtyard of Stain headquarters, and shot a Stain member in the abdomen after attempting to shoot another individual who was seated in the courtyard.
March 14, 2022 at 9:21 p.m. at 245 Troy Avenue: It is alleged that less than an hour later, and after Stain gang member Micah Gerson waited with the Stain victim to be picked up by ambulance, Gerson and another Stain member went to the Albany Houses. Once there, Gerson and another appeared to be searching for someone; they then left and proceeded towards 245 Troy Avenue (Albany territory), where they allegedly fired multiple rounds down the street in apparent retaliation before fleeing, striking a deli multiple times with numerous customers inside.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detectives Vincent Gambino and William Pugliese, under the supervision of Sergeant Steven Zanca, Lieutenant Mark Jablonski, and Captain Daniel Casella, of the Brooklyn North Violent Crime Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Michael O’Rourke and Senior Assistant District Attorney Michael Pesin-Virovets, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, with the assistance of Intelligence Analyst Austin Wilson and Paralegals Tania Lopez and Sultana Wahab, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Gillian DiPietro, Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Kathryn Spota, Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
Stain Gang Indictment
Olujimi Lucas, 30, also known as O Skeeno
Jahrell Madison, 22, also known as Jah Billy
Micah Gerson, 22, also known as Flex
Derrick Jones, 19, also known as 9 Shots
Rashilo Drew, 20, also known as Lo Glizzy
Isaiah Foster, 18, also known as KG
Deon Regis, 23, also known as Too Nice
Albany Gang Indictment
Treaston McGregory, 20, also known as Trigga Trey
Elijah McDonald, 29, also known as Eli
Patrick Daniels, 30
Ibrahima Barry, 20, also known as EB
