Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Fatally Shooting Teenage Girl at Party in East New York Apartment - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 21, 2024
Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for
Fatally Shooting Teenage Girl at Party in East New York Apartment
Defendant Shot the Victim Once in the Chest After She Rejected His Advances
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for shooting a 17-year-old girl once in the chest and killing her at a party in 2022. The defendant was convicted of manslaughter in March.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This senseless shooting took the life of a young woman with a bright future. Today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for his actions and is a measure of justice for the victim’s grieving family.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Javone Duncan, 24, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 15 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare. The defendant was convicted of second-degree manslaughter and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on March 25, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, at approximately 10:55 p.m., at 790 Elderts Lane, in East New York, Brooklyn, the defendant pointed a loaded gun at Raelynn Cameron, 17, pulled the trigger, shot her in the chest, and killed her. After the shooting, the defendant fled the scene without trying to help the victim, who had rejected his advances, according to the evidence.
Prior to the shooting, the defendant pointed the same gun at another young woman at the party and clicked the safety of the gun on and off, according to the evidence, and was told to stop pointing a loaded gun at people because it was dangerous.
The defendant was arrested on October 26, 2022.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegal Angelika Rostkowska and Victim Advocates Jennifer Rhoad, Vanessa Lozado, Kayla Richards, Sarah Obadeyi, and Shasha Dorsey for their work on the case.
Detective Investigators assigned to the District Attorney’s Investigations Bureau assisted in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Evan Hannay, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Miguel Rodriguez, of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
