Brooklyn Soccer Coach Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison For Sexually Abusing Young Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, August 22, 2024
Brooklyn Soccer Coach Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison
For Sexually Abusing Young Girl
Abuse Happened at a Sports Camp in Marine Park
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that the coach and owner of youth soccer camp in Marine Park has been sentenced to seven years in prison for sexually abusing a 10-year-old girl who attended the camp.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant despicably and unconscionably exploited his position of trust to prey on a young child in his care. I hope today’s sentence brings some closure to the victim and her family. I remain steadfast in my commitment to protecting our children and bringing sexual predators to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Stanislav Rozovsky, 52, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis to seven years in prison and 10 years of post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of first-degree sexual abuse, endangering the welfare of child, and second-degree unlawful imprisonment on July 3, 2024, following a jury trial. He must register as a sex offender upon release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 18, 2022, the defendant, then the coach and owner of a youth soccer camp in Marine Park, bought the 10-year-old victim ice cream and convinced her to enter his van. When the child grabbed the door handle to exit the vehicle, the defendant grabbed her wrist and pushed her back onto the seat. The defendant then fondled the victim’s chest, kissing her and telling her, “I love you.”
The abuse was reported to police when the child told a parent what had happened.
The defendant was arrested on August 12, 2022.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Detectives assigned to the Brooklyn Special Victims Squad.
The District Attorney thanked Special Victims Bureau Paralegal Julia Holman, Digital Intelligence Analysts Anna Kharitonova and Richard Rojas from the Digital Evidence Lab, and Media Services Technician Imani James from the Multimedia Services Unit, for their assistance in the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Kathleen Simpson of the Special Victims Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Linda Weinman, Counsel to the Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Perry Cerrato, Deputy Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
