Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison For Sexually Assaulting Two Women in Prospect Park - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 11, 2024
Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison
For Sexually Assaulting Two Women in Prospect Park
Defendant Approached the Victims in Separate Afternoon Attacks
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man has been sentenced to 15 years to life in prison for sexually assaulting two women as they were walking through Prospect Park.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I commend the victims in this case for the incredible courage and grace they showed by coming to court and testifying against the defendant. He has now been brought to justice and with today’s lengthy sentence it is ensured that he will not be able to attack any other innocent, vulnerable women.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Carlis Clarke, 28, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Christopher Robles to 15 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of one count of predatory sexual assault, two counts of first-degree criminal sexual act and one count of second-degree assault on March 18, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on March 11, 2019, at approximately 4:30 p.m., a 25-year-old woman was walking through Prospect Park when the defendant walked up to her, grabbed her by the hair, pulled her off the path and dragged her into the woods. He then sexually assaulted her, dragged her to a fence, and forced himself on her again.  The defendant and the victim then heard a noise, he became distracted, and she was able to flee.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, on February 23, 2021, at approximately 3:30 p.m., a 33-year-old woman was walking through Prospect Park when the defendant, wearing a ski mask, grabbed the woman by the hair, pulled her into the woods, sat on her, and sexually assaulted her. As the victim fought him off and screamed, a passerby heard her, came to her aid, and chased the defendant away.
The witness called 911 and followed the defendant into the Ebbets Field Houses. He was captured on surveillance video and arrested. His DNA was matched to DNA collected from the scarf of the 2019 victim.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Gwen Barnes and Tatiana Benjamin, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
