Alleged Gunman Indicted for Murder of 13-Year-Old Troy Gill, Who was Fatally Shot in Crown Heights Earlier This Year - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Alleged Gunman Indicted for Murder of 13-Year-Old Troy Gill,
Who was Fatally Shot in Crown Heights Earlier This Year
Defendant and Accomplice Were Looking for Rival Gang Members
When They Allegedly Shot the Teen
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an alleged member of a violent Brooklyn street gang has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder for a February shooting in Crown Heights that left a young teenager dead. The defendant and a codefendant, who was previously arraigned in connection to the same homicide, were also indicted for allegedly shooting up the front door of an alleged gang rival’s house.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “As alleged, these defendants went on a revenge spree that took the life of a young boy. This type of senseless retaliatory gang violence is claiming too many lives, including children, and my office, along with the NYPD, is focused on solving each one of those shootings and holding those who commit them responsible. I commend everyone who worked on this complicated investigation and hope today’s indictment will bring a small measure of relief to Troy’s loved ones.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jared (Jah Woo) McCauley, 21, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses on a 13-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and first-degree reckless endangerment. Sheik Koureichi, 21, of Brooklyn, was arraigned on the same indictment on July 29, 2024. Both defendants were ordered held without bail and to return to court on August 16, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 29, 2024, at approximately 10:30 p.m., in the vicinity of Bergen Street and New York Avenue, 13-year-old Troy Gill, who was walking home after attending a Nets basketball game at the Barclays Center, was allegedly shot by the defendants in a drive by shooting. The victim called his mother to tell her he had been shot. He was taken to Kings County Hospital and pronounced dead. He suffered gunshots to the back and arm.
The District Attorney further said that, according to the investigation, at approximately 11 p.m., the defendants drove in a white Jeep to East New York where they allegedly repeatedly shot the front door of a rival gang member who was purportedly a member of the Drench street gang.
Both shootings on February 29, 2024, are alleged to be in retaliation for the kidnapping and beating earlier that day of one of the defendants – McCauley, a rapper associated with the Woo gang. McCauley was allegedly lured to the Bronx, forced into a car, beaten, stripped, and then forced out of the car. That incident was recorded and posted to social media.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel Stern and Assistant District Attorney Matthew Bolin, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, VCE Deputy Chief of Trials, Assistant District Attorney Kathryn Spota, VCE Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, VCE First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
