Burglar Who Broke into Gargiulo’s Restaurant in Coney Island Sentenced to up to 8 Years in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 23, 2024
Burglar Who Broke into Gargiulo’s Restaurant in Coney Island
Sentenced to up to 8 Years in Prison
Caught on Camera Stealing Approximately $100,000 from Safe;
Re-Arrested After Jumping Bail
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to up to eight years in prison after breaking into Gargiulo’s Restaurant in Coney Island and stealing approximately $100,000 from a safe. The defendant failed to appear in court after being released on bail. He was rearrested after an alleged break-in on the Lower East Side. He pleaded guilty to second-degree grand larceny and second-degree bail jumping in March.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Beyond breaking into Gargiulo’s, a beloved Coney Island landmark for more than a century, this defendant is a serial burglar who has shown that he will continue to commit crimes if he remains at large, necessitating today’s prison sentence. My office is committed to protecting the property of everyone in Brooklyn and to holding offenders to account.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Luis Mercado, 34, of Coney Island. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Joanne Quinones to two concurrent prison terms of four to eight years and one-and-a-half to three years in a jail, following his guilty plea on March 11, 2024, to second-degree grand larceny and second-degree bail jumping.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 29, 2022, at about 2 a.m., the owner of Gargiulo’s Restaurant located at 2911 West 15
th
Street in Coney Island, was alerted that the alarm had been activated. About $100,000 in cash was missing from the safe in a back office and video surveillance captured the defendant and an accomplice breaking into the building. The defendant and the accomplice, who were wearing black clothing, gloves, and blue surgical masks, then fled through a side door towards West 15th Street and down Mermaid Avenue.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, detectives from the New York City Police Department’s 60th Precinct recovered video surveillance from numerous locations in the area that tracked the defendant and the accomplice as they traveled from the defendant’s home at 2760 West 33
rd
Street to Gargiulo’s and back to 2760 West 33
rd
Street. At that point, according to the evidence, the defendant entered the building’s elevator. He is then shown on camera removing the blue surgical mask covering his face.
The defendant was arrested on July 6, 2022, and indicted on charges of second-degree grand larceny and third-degree burglary.
After the defendant failed to appear in court on August 22, 2023, a bench warrant was issued. The defendant was subsequently arrested on September 12, 2023, for allegedly burglarizing a Lower East Side nightclub, and returned to Brooklyn. On January 31, 2024, the defendant was rearrested and charged with second-degree bail jumping.
The District Attorney thanked the NYPD’s 60
th
Precinct Detective Squad, Supervising Paralegal Aneudy Mata, and Paralegal Andy Wang for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Danyelle Shapiro and Assistant District Attorney Adam Ghalmi, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Boykin, Deputy Bureau Chief, and under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Bureau Chief.
#
