Brooklyn Man Indicted for Allegedly Killing Acquaintance, Dismembering Victim’s Body and Storing it in Refrigerator - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 12, 2024
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Allegedly Killing Acquaintance,
Dismembering Victim’s Body and Storing it in Refrigerator
Defendant was Arrested in Virginia, Extradited to Brooklyn to Face Charges,
Defendant’s Wife was Indicted for Concealment of a Human Corpse
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that Nicholas McGee has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with murder for the alleged stabbing death of an acquaintance in a Flatbush apartment in 2022 following a dispute over drugs.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a gruesome and horrific murder that we allege began with an attack on the victim as he slept. We will now seek to hold the defendant accountable for this senseless crime.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Nicholas McGee, 45, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully on an indictment in which he is charged with first-degree murder, second-degree murder, first-degree robbery, tampering with physical evidence and concealment of a human corpse. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on April 15, 2024. The defendant faces up to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The defendant’s wife, Heather Stines, 45, was arraigned on February 21, 2024, on an indictment in which she is charged with first-degree hindering prosecution, concealment of a human corpse and tampering with physical evidence.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, in March 2022, the defendant allegedly stabbed Kawsheen Gelzer, 39, in the back as he slept on a sofa in the defendant’s apartment, located at 2069 Nostrand Avenue, following a dispute over drugs. The victim woke up, and the pair struggled. Gelzer died after being stabbed multiple times and hit with a hammer. The defendant then allegedly stole drugs out of the victim’s pocket.
Furthermore, it is alleged, the defendant used a small saw and a hammer to dismember the victim’s body, placing most of it in plastic bags that were then placed in a suitcase and stored in a refrigerator. The victim’s head and torso were stored in the refrigerator and his arms and legs were stored in the freezer.
The body was discovered by police on January 22, 2024, after they responded to the location following an anonymous Crime Stoppers tip that Stines was keeping a body in her refrigerator. She was arrested at that time. McGee was arrested in Chesapeake, Virginia and returned to Brooklyn yesterday.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
