Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Up to 10 Years in Prison for Fatally Injuring Girlfriend’s 4-Month-Old Daughter - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 17, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Up to 10 Years in Prison for
Fatally Injuring Girlfriend’s 4-Month-Old Daughter
Medical Examiner Determined Child Died of Abusive Head Trauma
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been sentenced to up to 10 years in prison for fatally injuring his girlfriend’s four-month-old daughter. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter in April.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Royalty Kemp was a precious infant entrusted by her mother to the defendant’s care. Instead of ensuring the child’s safety, he caused head injuries so severe she died. With today’s sentence, the defendant has been held responsible for his horrific actions. Our hearts continue to be with the child’s mother and loved ones as they grieve her tragic loss.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ricardo Price, 26, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 3 1/3 to 10 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter on April 12, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 22, 2021, the defendant was babysitting four-month-old Royalty Kemp in an apartment at 93 Lewis Avenue. Her mother left the child in the defendant’s care for the night. The child was sitting in the defendant’s lap, according to the evidence, and began to cry. The defendant then repeatedly shook his leg to get her to quiet down, causing the child to bounce off his knee multiple times and the child’s head to strike a video game controller in the defendant’s hands.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the child’s mother returned on June 23, and noticed the baby was lethargic and unable to eat. That afternoon, the child became unresponsive. The mother and the defendant brought her to Woodhull Medical Center where doctors diagnosed a skull fracture. The child was transferred to Bellevue Hospital where she died on July 2, 2021.
An autopsy performed by the Office of the New York City Medical Examiner determined the child’s cause of death was from abusive head trauma with numerous recent injuries including skull fractures with underlying hemorrhaging to the brain as well as hemorrhaging to parts of the spinal cord.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Paul Hershan, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Perry Cerrato, Deputy Chief of the Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
