Canarsie Man Who Allegedly Struck and Killed Pedestrian While Driving Drunk Indicted for Vehicular Manslaughter - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 28, 2024
Canarsie Man Who Allegedly Struck and Killed Pedestrian While
Driving Drunk Indicted for Vehicular Manslaughter
Defendant’s Blood Alcohol Level Above the Legal Limit
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Canarsie man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with vehicular manslaughter after he allegedly drove drunk and struck a 68-year-old pedestrian crossing the street, killing him.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s alleged recklessness in drinking and driving cost an innocent man his life. Brooklyn residents deserve safe streets, and I am committed to holding the defendant accountable for his illegal conduct.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gary Turner, 47, of Canarsie, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dale Fong-Frederick on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree vehicle manslaughter, second-degree vehicular assault and operating a motor vehicle while under the influence. Bail was set at $150,00 cash or $300,00 bond. The defendant was ordered to return to court on April 16, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 31, 2024, at approximately 6:45 p.m., the defendant was driving a 2017 Dodge Caravan westbound on Glenwood Road when he struck Luis Garcia, 68, in the crosswalk at the intersection of East 105
th
Street, throwing him onto the ground.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, when police officers arrived at the scene, they allegedly observed that the defendant had slurred speech, red eyes, and an odor of alcohol on his breath. The defendant was administered a breathalyzer test, which showed the defendant had a blood alcohol level of .132, greater than the legal limit of .08.
Paramedics transported Garcia to Brooklyn University Hospital where he was pronounced dead due to severe blunt trauma to the chest and head.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher C. Rainwater and Assistant District Attorney Rebecca Velez of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson, Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Christopher Velez, Deputy Bureau Chief of the Street Safety Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
