Queens Man Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison for Two Violent Robberies - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 22, 2024
Queens Man Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison for Two Violent Robberies
Attacked Two Individuals in a Two-Hour Span and Assaulted Another,
Pleaded Guilty to Robbery
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Queens man was sentenced to seven years in prison in connection with three separate incidents in Brooklyn. The defendant pleaded guilty to robbery last month.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “
This defendant brutally attacked three individuals in unprovoked incidents committed over the span of just a few weeks. Today’s sentencing ensures he is held accountable for these vicious offenses and sends a strong message that violence in Brooklyn will be met with serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dupreme Williams, 43, of Far Rockaway, Queens. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully
to seven years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision following his guilty plea to second-degree robbery on October 29, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 13, 2014, at approximately 8:15 a.m., at Flatbush Avenue Extension and Fleet Street, the defendant approached a 50-year-old woman and struck her multiple times about the face and body, causing her to drop her AirPods, which the defendant picked up and then walked away.
The defendant approached another individual, a 73-year-old man, shortly thereafter, at approximately 9:45 a.m., who was aboard a southbound F train at the York Street subway station. The defendant punched the man in the face, causing him to drop his cell phone. The defendant grabbed the cell phone and ran off the train.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, on March 8, 2024, at approximately 1:55 p.m., in front of 2135 Pitkin Avenue, the defendant punched a man in the face with a closed fist.
The defendant was arrested on March 28, 2024, following an investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior
Assistant District Attorney Natalie Riether, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
