Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison For Attempted Sex Trafficking of a Child - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 18, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison
For Attempted Sex Trafficking of a Child
Defendant Tried to Persuade 15-Year-Old Girl to Engage in Prostitution
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East New York man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for attempted sex trafficking of a child and other charges for trying to convince a 15-year-old girl to engage in prostitution.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant took advantage of a young, vulnerable teenager, attempting to exploit her for his own gain. His actions were both predatory and reprehensible. Thanks to the courage of this young survivor and the diligent work of law enforcement, he is being held accountable, ensuring he cannot harm others. My office remains steadfast in its commitment to prosecuting those who target and harm our most vulnerable, bringing justice to victims, and working tirelessly to prevent this kind of exploitation in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant Deandre Lee, 29, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 10 years in prison and 10 years’ post-release supervision. He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to attempted sex trafficking of a child on October 31, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 28, 2024, the victim, a 15-year-old girl, was walking on Mother Gaston Boulevard in East New York when she met the defendant, who let her charge her phone in his car. He then asked her to walk around the corner to meet him, and then drove her to Chipotle to get some food.
Furthermore, the District Attorney said, after they ate, the defendant drove the victim to the side of a highway in Brooklyn, gave her marijuana, then had sex with her. He then told the victim she could make money by stripping or selling her body in exchange for money. He then drove her home. The next day, the defendant and victim were texting, and the defendant again asked the victim if she thought about what they talked about. The victim then reported the rape to police.
The District Attorney thanked Human Trafficking Unit Paralegal Aurora Martinez for her assistance on the case.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective Paul Mastronardi of the New York City Police Department’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Kevin Kavanagh, Lieutenant Amy Capogna and Captain Maripily Clase, and the overall supervision of Chief Carlos Ortiz.
The case was prosecuted by the Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the Human Trafficking Unit, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau.
#
