Bronx Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Allegedly Stabbing Transit Worker in Subway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
­­­­Monday, November 4, 2024
Bronx Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for
Allegedly Stabbing Transit Worker in Subway
The Victim Was Trying to Empty the Train, the Defendant Allegedly Refused to Leave
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault and other charges in connection with the stabbing of an MTA subway operator. The victim was stabbed 11 times.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “
This defendant is accused of viciously attacking and seriously injuring a hardworking train conductor who was simply doing his job. We will aggressively pursue full accountability for this violent assault. Keeping straphangers and transit workers safe is essential to the functioning of our city and a top priority for my office. We remain committed to ensuring that those who threaten the safety of our subways face the full consequences of their actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jonathan Davalos, 27, of the Bronx.
He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deepa Ambekar on a 13-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault, and related charges. The defendant is being held without bail and was ordered to return to court on January 10, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 8, 2024, at approximately 10:40 a.m., aboard a number 4 train subway car at the Crown Heights-Utica Avenue station, in Brooklyn, the victim, a 59-year-old subway operator, was attempting to clear the subway at the last stop on the train when he encountered the defendant. The operator asked the defendant to exit the subway, but he allegedly refused to leave. The men engaged in a verbal exchange and the defendant allegedly lunged at the victim after pulling a knife out of his jacket pocket.
Furthermore, it is alleged, the victim then began running from the defendant, who chased him down the platform. The victim tripped and fell onto the platform and the defendant allegedly straddled him and began stabbing him about the body. A witness alerted police officers at the station, and they responded to the scene and drew their weapons. The defendant then stood up, dropped the knife, and was placed under arrest.
The victim, who was stabbed 11 times, was taken to Kings County Hospital in serious condition.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg and Assistant District Attorneys Garrett Hines and Holley Howell, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi, Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
