Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Killing 48-Year-Old Man at Bedford-Stuyvesant House Party - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 22, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for
Killing 48-Year-Old Man at Bedford-Stuyvesant House Party
Victim Was Shot Twice During Attempted Robbery of Dice Game;
Defendant and Co-Defendant Pleaded Guilty to First-Degree Manslaughter
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been sentenced to 18 years in prison for fatally shooting a 48-year-old man at a house party in Bedford-Stuyvesant. The defendant and a co-defendant both pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter for their role in the killing.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s actions demonstrate the callousness and disregard for life that too often accompanies gun violence, and today’s sentence sends a strong message that those who terrorize our communities will be held fully accountable. My office will continue to pursue justice for every victim and family shattered by senseless acts of gun violence, and we remain steadfast in our resolve to keep Brooklyn safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ahmed Morrison, 22, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 18 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on September 4, 2024. A co-defendant, Unique Howell, 20, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, was sentenced to 17 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision by Justice Tully. He pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on February 23, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on February 6, 2020, the defendant and co-defendant, who were both armed with handguns, shot Kenneth Mark, 48, inside his home at 32 Pulaski Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant. The victim was hosting a party for about 15 people who were using a pool table to play dice. The defendant and co-defendant attended the party and left. At approximately 2 a.m., according to the evidence, they returned to the victim’s apartment wearing ski masks and armed with guns. The pair then forced their way into the apartment. They robbed one person of a wallet and proceeded to hold several others at gunpoint while attempting to take money off the pool table. When the victim put up a struggle, two shots were fired. The victim was struck in abdomen and chest. He was taken to Kings County Hospital where he died.
The defendant and co-defendant then fled together in a vehicle belonging to the defendant’s mother. Police located the vehicle a few days later, and the defendant’s name was on a traffic summons inside the car. Police also found the defendant’s fingerprints at the scene.
The defendant was arrested on May 2, 2020.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal Suleimy Santos, of the Homicide Bureau, for her assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Mirabella, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Kathleen Simpson, of the District Attorney’s Special Victim’s Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
