Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Nine Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea in Connection with Shooting Near Midwood High School - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 22, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Nine Years in Prison Following
Guilty Plea in Connection with Shooting Near Midwood High School
16-year-old Girl Struck by Stray Bullet
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to nine years in prison for a broad daylight shooting near a high school in Midwood. A 16-year-old student was struck by a stray bullet on her way home.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s unlawful decision to open fire near a school not only injured an innocent 16-year-old girl but shattered the sense of safety that every student, parent, and community member deserves. No young person should ever have to fear gunfire while walking home from school, and no community should bear the trauma of such senseless violence. Brooklyn recently experienced its safest summer from gun violence on record, and we remain committed to building on that progress. My office will continue to hold violent offenders fully accountable as we work to ensure every neighborhood remains a safe place to live, learn, and grow.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Javan Johnson, 22, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Joanne Quinones to nine years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree attempted assault on September 5, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 6, 2023, at approximately 12 p.m., at East 16th Street and Avenue M, just around the corner from Edward R. Murrow High School, in Midwood, the defendant fired a handgun at a rival across the street. At least 10 shots were fired. The defendant missed his intended target and instead struck a 16-year-old girl in the right ankle as she walked down the street. The defendant then handed the gun off to another individual before fleeing the scene. He was arrested a few hours later.
The victim was taken to a local hospital where she was treated for substantial bleeding and a fractured foot.
The case was prosecuted Assistant District Attorney Bianca Kushner, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorneys Michael Boykin and Lana Schlesinger, Deputy Bureau Chiefs, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Bureau Chief.
#
