Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for Machete Attack That Killed Grandfather and Wounded Two Other Family Members - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 16, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for Machete Attack That Killed
Grandfather and Wounded Two Other Family Members
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Second-Degree Murder in November
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 18 years to life in prison for fatally stabbing his grandfather with a machete and wounding two other family members, including a 4-year-old niece, during a rampage at the family’s home in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This sentence holds the defendant accountable for a tragic, senseless, and truly horrific act of violence perpetrated against members of his own family. My condolences go out to the family of James Dubose Sr. for their tremendous loss. Thankfully, the other two victims recovered from their wounds.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dayquan Dubose, 26, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced on Friday, December 13, 2024 by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis to 18 years to life in prison following his guilty plea to second-degree murder on November 14, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on January 3, 2021, at approximately 5 p.m., the defendant got into an argument with his four-year-old niece inside a first-floor apartment located at 300 Putnam Avenue. The defendant pulled out an 18-inch machete and cut the young girl on the hip. The defendant then went up to a second-floor apartment where an uncle let him in. The defendant proceeded to walk into a bedroom where his 79-year-old grandfather, James Dubose Sr., and his 49-year-old brother-in-law were watching television. The defendant began to stab the grandfather in the abdomen. When the brother-in-law intervened, and attempted to grab the machete, the defendant slashed the brother-in-law on the hand. Two additional family members were able to hold the defendant down until police arrived at the apartment and arrested him.
James Dubose Sr. was taken to Interfaith Medical Center where he later died of injuries.
The 49-year-old was taken to Kings County Hospital, while the 4-year-old girl was taken to Woodhull Hospital. Both were treated for their injuries and released.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin-Fodeman, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
