East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 14 Years in Prison For Sexual Assault of 13-Year-Old Boy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 22, 2024
East Flatbush Man Sentenced to 14 Years in Prison
For Sexual Assault of 13-Year-Old Boy
Defendant Abducted Stranger at Knifepoint as He Walked Home from School
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East Flatbush man has been sentenced to 14 years in prison for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old boy. The defendant pleaded guilty to criminal sexual act earlier this year.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for a terrifying assault of a child and spares the young boy from having to testify and recount this life-altering attack in a courtroom. My thoughts are with the victim and his family, who I commend for immediately reporting this incident to the police and ensuring the defendant was brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Christopher Fiesco, 34, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 14 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree criminal sexual act on August 9, 2024, in satisfaction of the entire indictment. He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 2, 2022, at approximately 3:50 p.m., the defendant, wearing a full ski mask, approached a 13-year-old boy in the vicinity of Winthrop Street and East 98
th
Street in East Flatbush, grabbed the child’s arm, and asked him for the time. When the child tried to leave, the defendant threatened him with a knife, told him not to scream, and took him to a building located at 87 East 53
rd
Street.
The defendant forced the child to climb a fire escape and enter an apartment through the window. Once inside, the defendant told him to shower and then sexually assaulted the child. He then let the child leave.
The victim went home and reported the assault to his family, who called 911.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Detectives assigned to the Brooklyn Special Victims Squad.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Deborah Cohen, Counsel to the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
