Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Eight Years in State Prison for Attempted Sexual Assault of Woman in Williamsburg - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 15, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Eight Years in State Prison for
Attempted Sexual Assault of Woman in Williamsburg
Defendant Broke Down Victim’s Door and Attacked Her While She Slept;
Defendant Left Wallet and Identification at Scene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that an East New York man has been sentenced to eight years in prison for attempting to sexually assault a woman who was asleep in her bedroom in Williamsburg. Her screams alerted her roommate, who struggled with the defendant. He then fled – dropping his wallet and identification at the scene.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant broke into a young woman’s home in the middle of the night and attempted to sexually assault her as she slept—an alarming violation of her safety and privacy. Thanks to the victim’s courage and her roommate’s quick response, he was apprehended before he could cause further harm. Today’s sentence ensures that the defendant is held accountable for this terrifying crime. We remain committed to seeking justice for survivors of sexual violence and making Brooklyn safer for all.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Akijah Hall, 29, of Ashford Street, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare to eight years in prison and 15 years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree burglary as a sexually motivated felony, first-degree attempted criminal sexual act, and first-degree sexual abuse on August 15, 2024, in exchange for the Court’s promised sentence of eight years.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 11, 2019, at approximately 4:30 a.m., the defendant forcibly broke into an apartment on Grand Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, by breaking the door off the hinges. He went into the bedroom of a 25-year-old woman who woke up to find him next to her bed, with his hand on her mouth and his other hand on her breast.
The victim screamed, according to the evidence, and woke up her roommate, who was sleeping in another room. The roommate struggled with the defendant, and he fled the apartment. During the struggle the defendant dropped his jacket and his wallet, which contained his New York State identification card (with his name, photo and home address) and his college student ID card, according to the evidence. He also dropped a coffee mug, which contained his DNA.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, after leaving the scene the defendant went to the 75th Precinct to make a police report claiming he lost his jacket, wallet, and identification. A few hours later, he was arrested outside of his residence.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims’ Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
