Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Allegedly Stabbing Two Men in Homeless Shelter and Another in Subway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 17, 2024
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for
Allegedly Stabbing Two Men in Homeless Shelter and Another in Subway
The Victims Were Asleep When the Defendant Allegedly Attacked Them
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault and other charges in connection with a series of stabbings that left three innocent men seriously injured.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly engaged in a horrific spree of violence, brutally stabbing three innocent and vulnerable people as they slept. We have no tolerance for this kind of random violence in Brooklyn and will now seek to bring the defendant to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Abraham Kentish, 27, formerly of the SUS Shelter in East New York, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew Sciarrino on an indictment in which he is charged with three counts of second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault, and related charges. The defendant is being held without bail and was ordered to return to court on March 7, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on November 12, 2023, at approximately 1:30 a.m., at the SUS Shelter, a homeless shelter, located at 1000 Blake Avenue in East New York, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly went into the room of a 70-year-old client who was sleeping and stabbed him 15 times in the torso and about the body. The defendant allegedly then went into the room of a 38-year-old client who was also sleeping and stabbed him twice in the face and once in the elbow. The defendant then left the shelter and a security guard, who was told about the stabbings, called 911.
Furthermore, it is alleged, later that morning, between 1:55 a.m. and 2:55 a.m., the defendant entered the New Lots Avenue subway station, boarded a number 4 subway car, and walked up to a 32-year-old man who was sleeping and stabbed him once in the neck.
All three victims were taken to Brookdale Hospital where they were treated for stab wounds.
The defendant was arrested later that morning by two New York City Police Officers who saw that he matched the description of an individual being sought for the attacks.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ainissa Proctor and Assistant District Attorney Ashlica Malcolm of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
