Brooklyn Baseball Coach Indicted for Sex Abuse of Seven Teen Players - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, October 24, 2024
Brooklyn Baseball Coach Indicted for Sex Abuse of Seven Teen Players
Allegedly Insisted Players Expose Themselves, Touched Genitals and Used Sexual Language; Victims Were Between 12 and 14 Years Old; Defendant Coached at The Packer School
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a youth baseball coach has been indicted for course of sexual conduct against a child, sexual abuse and other charges. It is alleged that during his travel team’s practices and other settings he consistently made sexual comments, repeatedly insisted that players show him their genitalia and touched their intimate parts on several occasions. At times, he allegedly refused to let athletes stop difficult conditioning exercises unless they exposed themselves to him.
District Attorney Gonzalez said
, “This defendant’s alleged actions represent a profound betrayal of trust, preying on the young athletes under his guidance. Coaches are entrusted with nurturing young minds and talents, not exploiting them for personal gratification. The disturbing details of this case highlight the lasting damage such behavior inflicts on vulnerable youth, and we are committed to holding this defendant fully accountable. Our priority remains to protect children and provide justice for these brave victims who have come forward.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Nicolas Morton, 31, of Park Slope. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo on a 20-count indictment charging him with second-degree course of sexual conduct against a child, third- and first-degree sexual abuse, 13 counts of endangering the welfare of a child, two counts of forcible touching, and second-degree unlawful imprisonment. Bail was set at $75,000 cash or $150,000 bond and the defendant was ordered to return to court on December 13, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant ran a travel baseball team while also serving as the head coach at The Packer Collegiate Institute. The allegations involve conduct during the travel team practices, mostly in Packer’s gym and in several Brooklyn ballfields, from the beginning of 2023 through the summer of 2024. Victims, whose ages ranged at that time from 12 to 14, recalled that at nearly every practice, the defendant made sexual comments, repeatedly asked to see the boys’ pubic hair, and spoke extensively about masturbation.
Three of the seven victims included in the indictment reported that the defendant allegedly touched their genitals over their clothes and one reported that he touched him under the clothing. All of the boys recalled that he asked, coaxed or pressured them to show him their pubic hair or penis. On numerous occasions he allegedly used illicit tactics to get them to show their genitals such as offering material benefits or telling them they could not stop running or doing other exhaustive drills unless they exposed themselves. He also allegedly threatened a number of boys that he would cut them from the team if they didn’t oblige.
Rumors started to circulate among players’ parents in July 2024 and some of them reported their concerns to Packer. The school terminated the defendant’s employment in August.
The District Attorney thanked New York City Police Department Detective Christopher Mastoros for his role in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Gwen Barnes and Gabriela Sinisi, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, with assistance from Special Victims Paralegal Jennifer Hernandez, and Emmanuel DeJesus, of the District Attorney’s Victim Services Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
