Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 14 Years in Prison for Deliberately Chasing Down and Crashing His Car into Cyclist, Killing Him - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 5, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 14 Years in Prison for Deliberately Chasing Down and Crashing His Car into Cyclist, Killing Him
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to First-Degree Manslaughter
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 14 years in prison for intentionally running over a cyclist in Bushwick who he allegedly observed breaking into his car.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant’s extreme reaction when he allegedly witnessed a relatively minor, non-violent crime cost a man his life. Rather than reporting the incident to police, the defendant deliberately chased the victim in his car, striking and killing him, while endangering everyone else on the road. He has now been brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Korey Johnson, 45, of Ocean Hill, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin to 14 years in prison following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter on February 9, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 3, 2019, at approximately 6 a.m., the defendant allegedly saw Donald Roberts, 47, breaking into the defendant’s 2003 Jeep Grand Cherokee parked on Broadway near Ellery Street in Bushwick. The defendant then entered his car and chased after the victim as he biked off, deliberately speeding down Broadway and entering oncoming traffic during the pursuit. The defendant intentionally drove his Jeep into the victim, striking him from behind and crashing his SUV into a row of parked cars before the car flipped onto its side.
The victim was taken to Woodhull Hospital where he died from severe blunt force trauma. Police arrested the defendant at the scene of the accident after he was extracted from his vehicle.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Evan Hannay, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie, Deputy Chief of the Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
