Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 9 ½ Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea in Connection with Brownsville Shooting - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 8, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 9 ½ Years in Prison
Following Guilty Plea in Connection with Brownsville Shooting
Defendant Opened Fire in Broad Daylight and Struck Police Officer’s Vehicle, Causing Injury
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to nine and a half years in prison for opening fire in Brownsville and striking a marked police car that was on patrol in the vicinity. A detective was injured by broken glass when a bullet shattered the driver’s side window. Two fired bullets were recovered inside the vehicle.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Thankfully, this NYPD detective was spared more serious injuries when this defendant fired a barrage of approximately nine rounds in broad daylight. Today’s sentence holds him accountable for his actions and will help to make the streets of Brooklyn safer.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jah-Mike Woolridge, 28, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Miriam Cyrulnik to nine and a half years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree attempted assault on January 10, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 23, 2022, at approximately 4:30 p.m., in the vicinity of Legion Street and Pitkin Avenue, following an earlier argument with a 23-year-old man, the defendant fired at a car that the man was driving which was stopped at a red light. The defendant fired multiple shots at the man’s car and into the intersection of Legion Street and Pitkin Avenue.
The victim’s car was struck multiple times and two rounds were recovered from inside his vehicle. The victim was not injured.
Furthermore, New York City Police Detective Sunjay Verma was driving west on Pitkin when he and his partner saw the defendant holding a black semi-automatic pistol and firing at the other vehicle. Detective Verma’s driver’s side window was hit by a bullet and shattered. The detective, who suffered injuries to his arm from the shattered glass, chased after the defendant, who fled into the nearby Brooklyn Gardens Housing Development, where a loaded black pistol was later recovered. Two rounds were recovered from inside the police car.
The defendant fled the scene. He was apprehended in Maryland by the Fugitive Task Force and the U.S. Marshals in November 2022 and returned to New York.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, with the assistance of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi and Assistant District Attorney Iris Das, Deputy Chiefs of the Orange Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
