Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Life in Prison for Armed Robbery and Shooting Spree in East Williamsburg That Left One Dead, One Injured - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 23, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Life in Prison for Armed Robbery and Shooting Spree in East Williamsburg That Left One Dead, One Injured
Defendant Convicted of First- and Second-Degree Murder Following Jury Trial
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Boerum Hill man has been sentenced to life in prison without parole for fatally shooting a man and wounding another during an armed robbery spree in East Williamsburg in 2021. The defendant was convicted of first- and second-degree murder, as well as numerous other charges.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a vicious crime spree that left a trail of terror and trauma to multiple victims, including a father of three who did not survive being shot by the defendant. With today’s sentence, the defendant has been held accountable for his actions. We will never tolerate such violence in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ramel Chapman, 32, of Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Eugene Guarino to life in prison without the possibility of parole. He was convicted of first-degree murder, two counts of second-degree murder, four counts of first-degree robbery, and three counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on February 14, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 13, 2021, at approximately 12:39 a.m., at 200 Morgan Avenue, in East Williamsburg, Sean Robinson, 33, of Stamford, Connecticut, and his friend, a 38-year-old man, were hanging out after attending a party and were targeted by the defendant. Robinson was sitting in his Ford Mustang convertible when the defendant approached him, pointed a 9-millimeter handgun at him and yelled, “This ain’t no joke, give me your sh-t!” The defendant grabbed Robinson, shot him once in the chest and ripped two gold chains from his neck. The defendant then approached the second man, who was standing on the other side of the car, pistol-whipped him in the face, and ripped a gold chain from his neck.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the defendant then ran to the corner of Stagg Street and Morgan Avenue, where a third victim was standing by his Dodge vehicle. The defendant pointed the handgun at the man and asked, “Do you want some too, big man?” At that point, the third victim retreated. The defendant then entered the vehicle and stole money, marijuana, and keys to the vehicle.
From there, according to the evidence, the defendant went to The Anchored Inn, a bar located three blocks away. Video surveillance captured the defendant examining the robbery proceeds. The defendant then left and headed home in a Lyft. Cell site records and video surveillance track the defendant traveling from the bar back to his home in Boerum Hill.
Robinson, a father of three who was engaged to marry his fiancé, was pronounced dead at Woodhull Medical Center. Testimony showed a bullet tore through his rib cage and right lung before it penetrated his heart and lodged in his spine.
The defendant, who was on parole, was identified on surveillance footage by two of his parole officers. He was arrested on July 27, 2021.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jhounelle Cunningham, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Nallely Duarte, of the Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
