Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting Teenager in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 28, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for
Fatally Shooting Teenager in East New York
Defendant Wrongly Accused Victim of Being a Gang Member
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 16-year-old boy in an unprovoked attack.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Justin Richey was brazenly and senselessly shot to death by this defendant in broad daylight on a Sunday afternoon. Justin was killed just one day after his 16
th
birthday. I hope today’s sentence brings a measure of solace to his heartbroken family and friends.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ralief Bradford, 30, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phyllis Chu to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on March 28, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on July 15, 2018, at approximately 5:07 p.m., on Blake Avenue between Euclid Avenue and Pine Street, in East New York, Brooklyn, the defendant and two unapprehended individuals approached the victim, Justin Richey, and wrongly accused him of being in a rival gang. They then assaulted him, and the defendant brandished a gun and shot the victim three times in the torso.
The victim collapsed and was taken to Brookdale Hospital where he was pronounced dead. The defendant was arrested on July 18, 2018.
The District Attorney thanked Intelligence Analyst Lexie Giardina and Digital Forensic Analyst Taylor Mumley of the Digital Evidence Lab for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Colt Rainwater, of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
