Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Execution Murder of One Man and Shooting and Injuring a Second Man - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, January 8, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for
Execution Murder of One Man and Shooting and Injuring a Second Man
Defendant Opened Fire Inside of Crowded Deli
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for fatally shooting one man and shooting and wounding a second man inside of a crowded deli in East New York, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The defendant showed a complete indifference to human life when he callously opened fire inside of a crowded deli, repeatedly shooting and killing one man, a soon-to-be father, and shooting and severely wounding a second man. Today’s sentence holds him accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Marcus Worrell, 28, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 9, 2023, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 5, 2020, at approximately 8:20 p.m., the defendant entered a deli located at 620 Livonia Avenue and shot Evon Hillman, 28, and continued firing at him even after the victim fell to the ground. Hillman died instantly, according to testimony. A second man, age 40, who was standing next to the victim, was shot in the stomach and suffered massive internal damage.
The defendant then left the deli, according to the evidence, and robbed another man of his motorbike at gunpoint to escape. He was arrested two months later, on August 5, 2020, by the New York City Police Department.
Hillman’s fiancée gave birth to their son two months after the murder.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Evan Hannay, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Chow Xie, Deputy Chief of the Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
