Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison for Shooting and Wounding New York City Police Officer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 3, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison
for Shooting and Wounding New York City Police Officer
Defendant Shot Officer Trying to Handcuff Him While Responding to Domestic Dispute
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been sentenced to 19 years in prison following his guilty plea to second-degree attempted murder for opening fire on New York City Police Officers in 2022. The defendant fired one shot, striking an officer in the foot, and fired additional shots at officers.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Police Officers put their lives on the line every day while responding to all kinds of disputes. Luckily Officer Orlando Adorno, and the other responding officers, were not seriously injured or killed by this defendant’s decision to open fire on police. Today’s lengthy sentence holds him accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Raheen Joye, 43, of the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully to 19 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted murder on April 10, 2024.
The District Attorney said that on December 21, 2022, at approximately 8:00 a.m., inside of an apartment at 277 Gates Avenue, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, the defendant and his girlfriend had an argument, and the defendant kicked a hole in the wall. The girlfriend then called 911.
At approximately 8:50 a.m., police responding to the 911 call were met by the girlfriend and the defendant in front of the building. Police interviewed both individuals, and the defendant admitted to kicking a hole in the wall. When told he was going to be arrested, the defendant tried to run and Police Officers Orlando Adorno, Angel Valenzuela, and Gina Williams Gordon, tried to subdue him. The defendant resisted and pulled a blue gun out of his pocket and fired one shot, hitting Officer Adorno’s foot. The defendant then fled down Gates Avenue toward Bedford Avenue with police in pursuit.
While never losing sight of the defendant, police observed the defendant holding a blue handgun while fleeing towards Monroe Street. On Monroe Street, two other police officers pursued the defendant, who ran towards Police Officer Christopher Bowie. The defendant pointed his gun toward Police Officers Bowie and Alexander Bido. Gunfire was exchanged between the defendant and police. The defendant was shot and fell to the ground, where the defendant shot at Police Officer Bowie and Bido before dropping the blue handgun to the ground and being apprehended.
Officer Adorno was treated for a gunshot wound to the foot and Officer Valenzuela was treated for injuries to the ankle.
The defendant was taken to Methodist Hospital and treated for two gunshot wounds to the leg.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Aleena Peerzada, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Chief of the Blue Zone.
#
