Bronx Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for Shooting Romantic Rival inside Ex-Girlfriend’s Home in Dyker Heights - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 20, 2024
Bronx Man Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison for Shooting Romantic Rival inside Ex-Girlfriend’s Home in Dyker Heights
Fired 16 Times Through Bedroom Door, Striking Victim Once in Head During Home Invasion
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been sentenced to 18 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a romantic rival inside his ex-girlfriend’s home in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. After breaking into the home, the defendant fired 16 times through a bedroom door, striking the victim once in the head, killing him.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant broke into a family’s home in the middle of the night, murdered an innocent man in cold blood and terrorized a mother and her young daughter at gun point. With today’s sentence, he has now been held accountable for his horrifying actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Adam Thomas, 33, of the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin to 18 years to life in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder on January 9, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on December 18, 2021, at approximately 12:16 a.m., the defendant broke into his ex-girlfriend’s home on 83rd Street in Dyker Heights. After climbing in a front window, the defendant, who was wearing a black ski-mask, encountered Justin Moncada, 30, in the hallway. Moncada saw the defendant and ran into a bedroom. The two men fought in the doorway, with Moncada shutting the door behind him. The defendant then fired 16 times through the door with a 9mm Smith & Wesson handgun. One of the shots struck Moncada in the head, killing him.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the defendant then exited through the window while his ex-girlfriend called police. While the woman was on the phone, the defendant returned and pointed the gun at her and a six-year-old daughter she shared with Moncada. He then demanded she turn over her cellphone and purse while screaming, “You chose him! You made me do this!” Police arrived and arrested the defendant as he attempted to climb back out of the window.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Mark Pagliuco, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, and Senior District Attorney Jessica Soares, also of the Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
