Brooklyn Man Who Allegedly Punched Woman in Random, Unprovoked Attack Indicted for Felony Assault - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 1, 2024
Brooklyn Man Who Allegedly Punched Woman in Random,
Unprovoked Attack Indicted for Felony Assault
Victim Suffered Broken Jaw
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 33-year-old man from Crown Heights, Brooklyn has been indicted for felony assault and related charges for allegedly punching a 57-year-old woman in the face unexpectedly and with no provocation, breaking her jaw.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Random attacks against strangers, especially women, are beyond senseless and completely unacceptable. A grand jury that heard all the evidence returned an indictment for felony assault and we will now seek to hold the defendant accountable, so he will not repeat this outrageous and criminal conduct.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Franz Jeudy, 33, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Matthew Sciarrino on an indictment charging him with second-degree assault, attempted second-degree assault, third-degree assault, and related counts. He remains on supervised release (The DA’s Office requested $25,000 cash bail or $50,000 bond) and was ordered to return to court on July 2, 2024. The defendant is facing a maximum sentence of seven years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that on March 26, 2024, at about 5 p.m., the victim, a 57-year-old woman from Crown Heights, who was heading home from her work as a school bus driver, was walking on Grand Avenue near Atlantic Avenue in Crown Heights.
She walked by the defendant, a stranger, who allegedly punched her in the face unexpectedly and without any provocation or words being exchanged between them beforehand. The victim ran to a nearby restaurant where her brother works and pointed out the defendant to him. The brother chased the defendant for several blocks and held the defendant until police officers arrived.
The victim was transported to New York Presbyterian Methodist Hospital. She suffered fractures to both sides of her jaw and lost multiple teeth. The case was initially charged as a misdemeanor assault but, after a review of the circumstances and the extent of injuries, the charges were upgraded to a felony.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorneys Michael Trabulsi, Iris Das and Linda Hristova, Deputy Bureau Chiefs, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
