Park Slope Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison For Sexually Assaulting Two Teenage Girls - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 13, 2024
Park Slope Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison
For Sexually Assaulting Two Teenage Girls
Assaults Were Captured on Video Surveillance Footage Recovered from Defendant’s Home
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Park Slope man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for sexually assaulting two teenage girls in his apartment after giving them drugs. The assaults were captured on video surveillance footage recovered from the defendant’s home.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “I remain committed to seeking justice for all victims of sexual violence and to protecting children and teens from predators who are intent on exploiting them. With today’s sentence, this defendant, who preyed on two young girls, offering them drugs and subjecting them to sexual assault, has now been held accountable. Brooklyn is safer with this defendant behind bars.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Christopher Chabrier, 40, of Park Slope, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare to 20 years in prison and 20
years
‘
post
–
release supervision.
He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison. The defendant was convicted of two counts of use of a child in a sexual performance as a sexually motivated felony; third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance; two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon; third-degree rape; third-degree criminal sexual act; second-degree attempted rape; and possession of a sexual performance by a child, among other charges, on February 13, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 30, 2020, the defendant approached the victims, who were 14 and 15 years old, at a park in Carroll Gardens. The defendant gave the victims what he told them was MDMA, Xanax, cocaine, and marijuana. Later, the victims and a friend smoked marijuana inside the defendant’s vehicle. The defendant gave each of the teens $20 before they exited the vehicle.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, on August 31, 2020, the defendant picked up the victims near Carroll Park and drove them to his apartment on Jackson Place in Park Slope. The defendant gave the victims what he told them was MDMA, cocaine, and marijuana. Both victims began to feel dizzy. One of the victims was so affected that she was unable to stand and began to crawl, at which point the defendant subjected both teenagers to various sexual acts, resulting in injuries to one of the victims.
Afterward, the defendant gave the victims $200 and $100, respectively.
One of the victims disclosed the assault to her father who took her to a nearby hospital where she was treated for lacerations and bruising. A sexual assault evidence collection kit was also completed.
The defendant was arrested on September 15, 2020. A search warrant executed at his apartment turned up two loaded firearms; several knives and tasers; boxes of ammunition; and a large quantity of drugs, including marijuana, cocaine, LSD, Psilocybin, Clonazepam, and Alprazolam, among others. Investigators also recovered video surveillance footage from security cameras throughout the residence that captured the sexual assaults of August 31, 2020.
Paralegals Kenneth Walker and Julia Holman of the Special Victims Bureau assisted in the prosecution.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sapna Kishnani, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Bureau Chief, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
