Fugitive Sheepshead Bay Lawyer Indicted for Embezzling Over $250,000 from Eight Clients - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, July 9, 2024
Fugitive Sheepshead Bay Lawyer Indicted for
Embezzling Over $250,000 from Eight Clients
Defendant Allegedly Stole Settlement Money Before Fleeing the United States
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a personal injury attorney has been charged with embezzling approximately $253,000 from eight of his clients. The defendant fled the United States before being disbarred in 2019.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly betrayed the trust of his clients and violated his oath as an attorney by pocketing hundreds of thousands of dollars to which he was not entitled. Criminal conduct in the legal profession will not be tolerated, and my Office is determined to hold this defendant to account for his alleged thefts.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Alan Ross, 66, whose law office was located in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo on a 10-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree criminal possession of stolen property; second-degree grand larceny; seven counts of third-degree grand larceny; and first-degree scheme to defraud. The defendant was released under supervision and ordered to return to court on September 25, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, from December 2015 to May 2019, the defendant, who handled personal injury cases, allegedly embezzled approximately $253,000 in settlement funds from eight of his clients. The thefts ranged in size from approximately $10,000 to $83,000. As part of the scheme, the defendant allegedly transferred settlement funds from his clients’ escrow accounts to his law firm’s operating account as well as his personal account. It is alleged the defendant spent over $52,000 of the stolen funds on a vacation to Aruba and another $3,000 on laser micro-surgery.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, the defendant abandoned his practice, leaving numerous files in his law office before fleeing the country to Israel. He was disbarred in February 2019.
The defendant was arrested at the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport last month and waived extradition to New York.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Frank Ungerer of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division, under the supervision of Adam Libove, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Public Integrity Bureau, and Laura Neubauer, Chief of the Public Integrity Bureau, and the overall supervision of Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division, and Patricia McNeill, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
