Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Teen in Prospect Park South - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 14, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 20 Years to Life
in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Teen in Prospect Park South
Defendant Convicted of Second-Degree Murder in October
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Flatbush man has been sentenced to 20 years to life in prison following his conviction for killing a teenager in Prospect Park South in 2020. The defendant and the 19-year-old victim were hanging out when the defendant pulled out a knife and fatally stabbed him in the chest.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The life of Mamadou Bah was senselessly cut short at the hands of this defendant whose horrific actions left an entire community devastated. Hopefully, today’s lengthy sentence allows for some closure for the victim’s family and friends as they continue to grieve the young man’s tragic death.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mamadou Barry, 35, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Rhonda Tomlinson to 20 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder on October 16, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on February 18, 2020, at approximately 7:30 p.m., the defendant and the victim, Mamadou Bah, 19, both immigrants from Senegal, were hanging out with friends in front of 591 Ocean Avenue in Prospect Park South. The defendant, who goes by the nickname “Zion,” pulled out a knife and approached the victim, who was backpedaling into the street. The defendant then swung and plunged the knife approximately four inches into the victim’s chest, perforating his left lung and heart.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the defendant continued to chase the victim who ran to the corner of Ocean and Church Avenues, where he stumbled into a barbershop. Inside, the teen asked employees to call his mother before being rushed to Kings County Hospital. He died during emergency surgery.
Police were subsequently able to identify the defendant through surveillance footage, eyewitness statements, and social media.
The defendant was arrested in Secaucus, New Jersey, on December 1, 2020.
The District Attorney thanked the KCDA Detective Investigators, the Digital Evidence Lab, and Homicide Paralegal Andy Wang for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Gianna Del Grippo, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau.
#
