Florida Man Indicted for Stealing Approximately $93,000 from Six Victims While Posing as a Lawyer - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, July 15, 2024
Florida Man Indicted for Stealing Approximately $93,000 from
Six Victims While Posing as a Lawyer
Allegedly Forged a Victim’s Signature on Court Filings and Retainer Agreement
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and Homeland Security Investigations New York Special Agent in Charge Ivan J. Arvelo today announced that a Florida man has been charged with stealing tens of thousands of dollars from six Russian-speaking victims in Brooklyn while posing as an attorney. The defendant was never registered to practice law.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “As alleged, this defendant deceitfully portrayed himself as a practicing attorney to exploit the trust of New Yorkers in need of legal services. Instead of helping them, the defendant allegedly took advantage of them and lined his own pockets at their expense. We will now seek to hold him accountable for his alleged criminal actions.”
Special Agent in Charge Arvelo said “David Manasher is accused of stealing over $90,000 from his victims, including those who sought to lawfully obtain their immigration benefits. He allegedly exploited his customers and our nation’s immigration system for his own financial gain. HSI New York’s Document and Benefit Fraud Task Force is committed to identifying and investigating such crimes to ensure New Yorkers can feel as secure as possible, even – and especially – when they’re vulnerable. We are proud to work with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners in ensuring the public’s safety and overall wellbeing remain a priority.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as David Manasher, 44, of Margate, Florida, who also resided at times in New York and New Jersey. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Susan Quirk on a 20-count indictment in which he is charged with second-, third- and fourth-degree grand larceny; first-degree immigrant assistant services fraud; second-degree forgery; first-degree offering a false instrument for filing; practicing law or appearing as attorney-at-law without being admitted and registered to practice; and first-degree scheme to defraud. The defendant was released without bail and ordered to return to court on August 21, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between December 1, 2020, and March 15, 2024, the defendant defrauded six people out of approximately $93,000 while posing as a lawyer specializing in landlord-tenant, immigration, and contract law. The defendant stole amounts ranging from approximately $2,000 to approximately $65,000. All six victims are Russian-speaking and either resided or worked in Brooklyn. They retained the defendant through various referrals and paid him in the belief that he was a licensed attorney. In one matter, the defendant forged a victim’s signature on both a court filing and a retainer agreement.
One of the victims reported the defendant to the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, which launched an investigation.
People who believe that they have been victimized by this defendant are encouraged to contact the District Attorney’s Action Center at 718-250-2340 or send an email to ManasherComplaints@brooklynda.org.
The District Attorney thanked KCDA Detective Investigators and Intelligence Analyst Veranika Basak of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division for their assistance on the case.
Additionally, the District Attorney thanked HSI New York’s Document and Benefit Fraud Task Force and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sergey Marts, of the District Attorney’s Investigations Division, and Assistant District Attorney Andrew Kohler, Special Counsel to the Investigations Division, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of Investigations, and Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Chief of Investigations.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
