Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and NYPD To Offer $500 for Guns at Crown Heights Buyback - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, July 19, 2024
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and NYPD
To Offer $500 for Guns at Crown Heights Buyback
Buyback to be Held at Beulah Church of the Nazarene on Saturday, July 20
No ID Required, No Questions Asked
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and New York City Police Commissioner Edward A. Caban today announced that a Gun Buyback event will be held on Saturday, July 20, 2024, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at Beulah Church of the Nazarene, located at 1250 Saint Johns Place, Brooklyn. Those who turn in operable guns and assault rifles will receive a $500 bank card.
Media availability will take place on Saturday, July 20, 2024, at 4 p.m.
(members of the press are asked not to arrive before 3:30 p.m.).
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “We have made incredible progress reducing gun violence in Brooklyn, and we know that every gun that comes off of our streets can mean a life saved. Saturday’s Gun Buyback is an important component of our efforts to remove illegal firearms from our communities, and a great opportunity to pick up some extra cash this summer. I encourage anyone with any unwanted gun to take advantage of this opportunity.”
Commissioner Caban said, “As we make significant progress in combating gun violence in New York City, the issue remains among our most urgent public safety priorities. This gun buyback event will help New Yorkers advance the accomplishments we have already achieved this year: shooting incidents reduced by 10 percent citywide compared to last year and by more than 33 percent compared to 2022. The NYPD is proud to partner with the office of the Brooklyn district attorney and Beulah Church of the Nazarene to save additional lives and keep New York City the safest big city in the nation.”
Rev. Dr. Wenton Fyne, Pastor of Beulah Church of the Nazarene, said, “It is our delight to host this Gun buyback event at Beulah Church. All of us have a desire to keep our community safe. We know that gun violence is not the solution to deal with conflicts and solve problems. So if you or anyone you know has a gun, we encourage you to turn it in at the safest place in the community- the church. The scripture encourages us to live in peace with each other.”
The District Attorney said that his office will offer money in the form of a $500 bank card for each operable gun or assault rifle turned in, with a limit of three per person. There will be an offer of a $200 bank card for ghost guns or 3D printed guns with a maximum of two per person. No identification is required, and all transactions will be anonymous, no questions asked. Participants will also receive a $75 bank card for each rifle or shotgun and a $25 bank card for each air gun, imitation pistol or a non-operable firearm. Two ghost gun limit per participant and three guns total per participant.
The bank cards will be issued after each firearm is received and screened by officers on site. Guns should be unloaded and packaged in a paper or plastic bag or a box when brought to the event. If transported by car, the guns must be kept in the trunk. Both working and inoperable weapons will be accepted. Active or retired law enforcement officers and licensed gun dealers are not eligible for this event.
The DA’s Office hosts periodic Gun Buybacks throughout the year and in different Brooklyn neighborhoods.
Beulah Church of the Nazarene is located at 1250 Saint Johns Place, Brooklyn, NY 11213. (Entrance by Troy Avenue).
#
