Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Stabbing and Kicking Subway Passenger - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 29, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for
Stabbing and Kicking Subway Passenger
Victim Had Asked Defendant, who was Screaming Profanities, to Lower His Voice
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 10 years in prison for pulling out a kitchen knife on the subway and stabbing a stranger in the back, then kicking him repeatedly about the face after he fell to the floor.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a senseless and frightening act of violence against someone who asked for basic courtesy on the subway. We are relieved the victim escaped more serious harm, but no one should have to experience such violence during their daily commute. Today’s sentence ensures the defendant is held accountable and reinforces our commitment to keeping our transit system safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Sadam Adames, 33, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced yesterday by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare to 10 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of first-degree attempted assault on September 18, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 13, 2022, at approximately 12:40 p.m., the defendant was on a number 2 train traveling through Brooklyn toward Manhattan. When the defendant boarded the train at Winthrop Street, he began screaming profanities into his phone, alarming the other passengers. When a 49-year-old man on the train asked him to lower his voice the defendant walked down the train car, stood over the man, pulled a kitchen knife out of his bag, and attempted to stab the man in his stomach.
The victim was able to grab the defendant’s hand and the two struggled, according to the evidence. The defendant managed to stab the victim in the back and throw him on to the seats. The victim then fell to the floor and the defendant subsequently kicked the victim in the face multiple times. The train then pulled into the Bergen Street station and the defendant left the train.
The victim was treated by paramedics at the scene and taken to Methodist Hospital where he received three stitches to his back and was treated for bruising to his face and lacerations to his lip. The defendant was positively identified by a witness who saw the attack and recorded it on his cell phone. He was identified and arrested the next day after his photo was released to the media.
Intelligence Analyst Fatima Shaihk of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab assisted with this case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg and Assistant District Attorney Stacie Ulberg, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi, Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
