Teacher Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Sexual Abuse of Two Students  - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 14, 2024
Teacher Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him
With Sexual Abuse of Two Students
Abuse Allegedly Occurred in Classroom at Intermediate School 218
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 59-year-old math teacher at I.S. 218, located at 370 Fountain Avenue, has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with sexually abusing two students.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The conduct alleged in this indictment marks an incredible betrayal of trust by an educator, and we have no tolerance for this kind of abuse. Our schools must be safe havens for teaching and learning, and we will vigorously seek accountability for this defendant’s allegedly reprehensible actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gary Simon, 59, of Flushing, Queens. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Rhonda Tomlinson on an indictment in which he is charged with first- and second-degree sexual abuse, forcible touching and endangering the welfare of a child. The defendant was ordered to return to court on April 7, 2024. Bail was continued at $15,000 cash or $30,000 bond.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between November 15, 2023 and December 15, 2023, a 13-year-old girl was in the defendant’s classroom finishing an assignment when the defendant allegedly wrote “you suck” on a paper she had handed him. When the student asked the defendant why he wrote that he allegedly grabbed her and touched her breasts with his hands.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, on December 7, 2023, a 12-year-old girl was in the defendant’s classroom taking a test when the defendant allegedly hugged the girl and touched her breasts with his hands. The victim told the defendant she was going to report him, according to the investigation, and he allegedly laughed and said, “make sure you spell my name right.”
The first victim reported the alleged abuse to her counselor and the second victim reported the alleged abuse to her gym teacher. The allegations were relayed to the school principal and police were notified. The defendant was arrested on December 28, 2023, following an investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Tatiana Benjamin, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
