Stuyvesant Heights Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Shooting NYPD Officer Responding to Domestic Violence Call - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 31, 2024
Stuyvesant Heights Man Sentenced to 20 Years in Prison for Shooting
NYPD Officer Responding to Domestic Violence Call
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Attempted Murder in September
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Stuyvesant Heights man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for shooting a New York City Police Officer who was responding to a domestic violence call. The officer was wearing a bulletproof vest that stopped the bullet.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “It’s a miracle Officer Boalick wasn’t more seriously injured or killed when he was shot by this defendant while answering a domestic violence call. Today’s lengthy prison sentence holds the defendant accountable for his violent actions while underscoring the dangers our police officers face every day to keep us all safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as William Moss, 23, of Stuyvesant Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 20 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted murder on September 7, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, throughout the afternoon and evening of December 24, 2020, the defendant and his girlfriend were engaged in an argument on the phone. At one point, the defendant threatened to come over to the young woman’s home on Bergen Street in Crown Heights and shoot at the window. As a result of this threat, the young woman’s mother called police.
At approximately 9:05 p.m., according to the evidence, six uniformed officers from the 77
th
Precinct arrived at the address. While they were interviewing the young woman outside of the building, the defendant showed up and fired two shots at her. The first shot missed. The second shot struck one of the officers, Connor Boalick, then 27, in the back. The bullet lodged in a bulletproof vest that the officer was wearing.
Immediately after the shooting, the defendant fled on foot with two of the officers chasing after him. The officers shot at the defendant, missing him. Police apprehended the defendant two blocks away and located his 9-millimeter pistol where he had tossed it.
Police Officer Boalick was taken to Kings County Hospital where he was treated for bruising and abrasions to his back and released.
The District Attorney thanked Office Manager Jannette Ayala of the Homicide Bureau and Alexandra Aber, Chief Analyst of the Digital Evidence Lab, for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Chow Yun Xie, Deputy Chief of District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Salvador Reynozo, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Chief of the Orange Zone Trial Bureau.
#
