Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Allegedly Running Over Another Woman Intentionally, Killing Her - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 21, 2024
Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Allegedly
Running Over Another Woman Intentionally, Killing Her
Tried to Strike Her Twice with Car Before Driving Over Victim Who Fell to Ground
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn woman has been arraigned on an indictment charging her with murder for allegedly running over another woman inside a parking lot in East New York, Brooklyn. The incident was captured on surveillance video.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly escalated an argument by cold heartedly and intentionally killing a woman with her car then driving away. This shocking and tragic murder was completely senseless and such violent behavior cannot be tolerated. We will now seek to hold the defendant accountable for her actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Naomi Broomes, 33, of East New York, Brooklyn. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Vincent Del Giudice on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree murder, leaving the scene of an incident without reporting and criminal possession of a weapon. She was ordered held without bail and to return to court on May 17, 2024. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 11, 2024, just before 7:30 p.m., the defendant parked her car in a parking lot outside 1210 Loring Avenue, which is part of the Louis Pink Houses in East New York. A surveillance video that captured the entire incident showed that a man, which the investigation determined to be her boyfriend, walked away from his car, a 2006 Mercury sedan.
The video then shows a woman, identified as the victim, 24-year-old Shakira Serrano, who used to be romantically involved with the defendant’s boyfriend, approaching the car and starting to argue with its occupant, who’s in the driver’s seat. The boyfriend returned to the scene and tried to separate the two rivals. During the argument, the victim kicked and hit the vehicle.
The evidence shows that the defendant was driving the vehicle and twice attempted to strike the victim with the car but missed. The victim continued to struggle with the man who then shoved her to the ground. At that moment, the defendant allegedly accelerated the car and ran over the victim’s entire body, before driving away and leaving her boyfriend with the lifeless victim.
The victim was taken to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center where she was pronounced dead.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal James Morales of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau for his assistance on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
