Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison for Shooting Two Teens, One Fatally, During Fight Over Marijuana Sale - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 21, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 21 Years in Prison for
Shooting Two Teens, One Fatally, During Fight Over Marijuana Sale
Pleaded Guilty to First-Degree Manslaughter in March
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 21 years in prison for shooting two teenagers, one fatally, in East Flatbush in 2020 during a fight that erupted over a marijuana sale.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant needlessly escalated an argument into a deadly confrontation that tragically cost a young man his life. The defendant’s guilty plea and today’s sentence hold him accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Nasir Perez, 22, of Midwood, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht to 21 years in prison and five years’ post release supervision following his guilty plea to first-degree manslaughter on March 28, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 28, 2020, at approximately 2:30 p.m., at East 26
th
Street and Foster Avenue, in East Flatbush, the defendant met with three 17-year-olds in order to purchase marijuana. The defendant was the buyer; the teenagers were the sellers. An argument broke out when the defendant asked to inspect the marijuana and tried to take it from one of the teenagers. When the young man resisted, the defendant pulled out a 380-caliber Taurus handgun. Two of the other teens displayed knives and converged on the defendant. The defendant then opened fire, striking one of the teens in the head and chest, and hitting another in the hand.
The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant was arrested on February 11, 2021.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegal Amanda Connolly for her assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Perry, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Steven Bravo, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
