Crown Heights Man Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison For Violently Attacking Good Samaritan on Subway Car - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 5, 2024
Crown Heights Man Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison
For Violently Attacking Good Samaritan on Subway Car
Victim Was Slashed in Face After Attempting to Break Up Fight
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Crown Heights man has been sentenced to seven years in prison for attacking a 44-year-old man and slashing him in the face when the victim attempted to break up a fight on a subway car. The defendant pleaded guilty in June for the assault, which left the victim with significant scarring.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for a vicious and unprovoked attack of a stranger riding the subway. The fact that the victim was simply acting as a Good Samaritan makes the defendant’s behavior in this case especially appalling. We will never tolerate violence in the subway system.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Sean Lewis, 34, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully to seven years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree attempted assault on June 11, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 10, 2023, at approximately 9:40 p.m., the defendant was fighting another man on a southbound C train in Brooklyn. When the victim, 44, tried to intervene, the defendant turned his attention to him. The victim retreated to the other end of the subway car. As the train pulled into the Franklin Avenue station in Bedford-Stuyvesant, the defendant approached the victim and said, “Thank you.” He pulled out a sharp object and slashed the victim in the face. The defendant then got off the train and fled the station.
The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital where he required approximately 100 stitches to close the eight-inch wound on the left side of his face.
The defendant was captured on surveillance footage and arrested on May 18, 2023.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Steven Bravo of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
