Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him with Six Separate Assaults, Mostly Against Senior Citizens, in Less Than a Month - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, August 28, 2024
Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him with Six Separate Assaults,
Mostly Against Senior Citizens, in Less Than a Month
Defendant Allegedly Approached Victims from Behind, Knocked them to the Ground
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a 29-year-old man has been indicted on numerous charges of assault and other counts for allegedly attacking six individuals, mostly senior citizens, in separate attacks in Sunset Park, Bay Ridge and Coney Island.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The outrageousness of this defendant’s disturbing attacks on vulnerable seniors cannot be overstated, and our prosecutors will work diligently to ensure that he can no longer endanger our neighbors. This kind of random violence can terrorize a community, and it will never be tolerated in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mouhamed Diallo, 29. The defendant was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses on a 15-count indictment in which he is variously charged with second- and third-degree assault, fourth-degree grand larceny, second- and third-degree robbery, and petit larceny. His bail was continued at $100,000 cash or $300,000 bond and, after being deemed unfit to proceed, the defendant was remanded into treatment until he’s found fit.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between April 28, 2024 and May 21, 2024, the defendant allegedly assaulted five women and one man. Five of the people assaulted were senior citizens.
The incidents charged in the indictment include the following:
An assault on April 28, 2024, at approximately 9:20 a.m., at 6761 4th Avenue. The defendant allegedly approached a 73-year-old woman from behind, punched her in the head and caused her to fall to the ground. She suffered cuts to her face and hands.
An assault on May 5, 2024, at approximately 1:13 p.m., at 86th Street and West 8th Street. The defendant allegedly approached a 74-year-old woman from behind, pushed her to the ground and caused cuts to her hands and face.
An assault on May 5, 2024, at approximately 4:50 p.m., at 4th Avenue and 96th Street. The defendant allegedly approached a 72-year-old woman from behind, punched her in the head and caused her to fall to the ground and suffer cuts to her face and hands.
An assault on May 9, 2024, at approximately 5:35 p.m., at 143 28th Street. The defendant allegedly approached a 34-year-old woman from behind, punched her in the head and caused her to fall to the ground, where she suffered cuts to her face and hands. The defendant allegedly grabbed the woman’s purse, containing cash and credit cards and fled. He threw the purse to the ground after the victim chased him.
An assault on May 19, 2024, at approximately 10 p.m., at 4th Avenue and 95th Street. The defendant approached an 87-year-old man from behind, punched him in the head and caus him to fall to the ground. The victim suffered cuts to the head and hands.
An assault on May 21, 2024, at approximately 8:10 a.m., at 350 44th Street. The defendant approached a 60-year-old woman from behind and pushed her to the ground, causing cuts to the knee and elbow.
The District Attorney said that all the incidents were allegedly caught on surveillance video. The defendant was arrested on May 23, 2024.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Natalie Riether, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
