Williamsburg Driver Indicted for Manslaughter After Allegedly Fleeing Car Crash That Killed Passenger - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 21, 2024
Williamsburg Driver Indicted for Manslaughter
After Allegedly Fleeing Car Crash That Killed Passenger
Defendant Was Allegedly Speeding and
Ran Multiple Red Lights Before Colliding with MTA Bus
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Williamsburg man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, leaving the scene of an incident without reporting, and additional charges in connection with a car crash in which he allegedly ran multiple red lights and struck an MTA bus before fleeing the scene. One of the defendant’s passengers, a 33-year-old man, was killed.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “As alleged, this defendant’s extreme recklessness behind the wheel cost the life of an innocent person and put many more people in harm’s way. Brooklyn deserves safe streets, and I am committed to holding accountable any driver who endangers our community with this kind dangerous and criminal conduct.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Michael Rivera, 31, of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses on an eight-count indictment in which he is charged with second-degree manslaughter; second-degree assault; criminally negligent homicide; leaving the scene of an incident without reporting, second-degree reckless endangerment; reckless driving; excessive speed; and failure to obey traffic control signal. The defendant faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the top count. He was ordered to return to court on July 23, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on February 26, 2024, at approximately 9:45 p.m., the defendant was driving an unregistered 2010 red Mercedes Benz on Harrison Avenue in South Williamsburg. Video surveillance allegedly captures the defendant running multiple red lights and driving more than 49 miles per hour in a 25 mile per hour zone.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, the defendant then allegedly ran a red light at the intersection of Lorimer Street and Harrison Avenue where he collided with an MTA bus. The force of the collision caused the vehicle to spin and mount the sidewalk. A passenger, Alex DeJesus Caba Gutierrez, 33, was thrown from the backseat. Video surveillance footage allegedly captures the defendant exiting the Mercedes and walking up to Gutierrez where he lay on the sidewalk. The defendant then fled the scene, leaving his friend.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, bystanders called 911. When EMS arrived, they observed that Gutierrez was critically injured and transported him to Bellevue Hospital where he died approximately two hours later. It was the victim’s birthday. Additionally, the driver of the MTA bus and several passengers suffered multiple injuries and were transported to the hospital for medical treatment.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Brogna and Assistant District Attorney Christina R. Deleasa, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Robert Walsh, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
