Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Flatlands Shooting That Killed Gang Rival Sitting in Car with Girlfriend - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 6, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison
for Flatlands Shooting That Killed Gang Rival Sitting in Car with Girlfriend
At least Nine Shots from Large Caliber Handguns were Fired into Vehicle
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for a shooting that left a 21-year-old man dead. The defendant and his accomplice opened fire into a car parked in Flatlands where the victim was sitting with his girlfriend. The victim managed to push his girlfriend out of the car before collapsing, shielding her from the gunfire.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Anthony Francis was a beloved son, brother, nephew and cousin who was just 21 years old when he was shot and killed in a senseless act of gang violence. The lengthy sentences resulting from his murder underscore my commitment to protecting our communities from dangerous gang rivalries that harm too many young people.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Tarell Herbert, 30, of Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Heidi Cesare to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 8, 2023, following a jury trial. His co-defendant, Tristan Murray, 31, of Brooklyn, was sentenced by Justice Cesare to 35 years to life in prison last June. Murray was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on May 19, 2023, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 2, 2016, just after 7 p.m., Anthony Francis, 21, was wrapping up a visit with his girlfriend in Flatlands, Brooklyn, when they entered his BMW, which was parked on the street. Francis and his girlfriend were seated in the vehicle when the defendant and Murray drove up to the BMW at approximately 7:26 p.m. and opened fire at point-blank range from their passenger side window into the BMW.
The defendants were affiliated with the Folk Nation gang in Flatbush and were looking for rival gang members to shoot at the time of the incident, according to trial testimony. They spotted the victim, a member of the rival Woo gang, based in Canarsie, and one of the defendants yelled “Woo,” which is a way that Woo members greet each other, according to trial testimony. The defendants then opened fire. The victim, who was struck in the chest, pushed his girlfriend out of the car just before he died. Multiple .40 caliber and .45 caliber shell casings were found at the scene and Francis’ BMW was riddled with .40 and .45 caliber bullets.
The case was investigated by NYPD Detective Steven Yatchenya and the NYPD Brooklyn South Homicide Task Force, as well as a Detective Investigator assigned to the District Attorney’s Special Investigations Unit.
The District Attorney thanked the Detective Investigators of the Special Investigations Unit, as well as analysts assigned to the DA’s Digital Evidence Lab, for their work on the case. The District Attorney additionally thanked Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau Paralegals Diane Fields-Vernon and Tania Lopez for their assistance.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Nicholas Ford and Senior Assistant District Attorney Michelle Kiley, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
