East Flatbush Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Randomly Attacking Multiple Women During Violent Spree - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, October 7, 2024
East Flatbush Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Randomly Attacking Multiple Women During Violent Spree
Alleged Assaults Happened Minutes Apart in Flatlands
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that an East Flatbush man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault, and other charges after he allegedly attacked two women in Flatlands during a violent and unprovoked spree. The defendant has also been charged with third-degree assault on a separate criminal complaint for allegedly attacking a third woman earlier that day.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly committed a series of terrifying and unprovoked attacks against multiple women, and my Office is working diligently to ensure that he is no longer a danger to our community. We have no tolerance for this kind of random violence in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Damally Cain, 24, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deepa Ambekar on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree attempted assault, two counts of second-degree assault, second- and third-degree attempted robbery, fourth-degree attempted grand larceny, and third-degree assault. The defendant is being held on $30,000 bond or $15,000 cash bail and was ordered to return to court on December 12, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on August 18, 2024, at approximately 4:42 p.m., near the intersection of East 40th Street and Hubbard Place, in Flatlands, the defendant allegedly attacked a 66-year-old woman on the street. After approaching the victim, the defendant allegedly pulled the woman to the ground. He punched and kicked her in the face, grabbing her by the hair and slamming her head against the pavement. After a bystander intervened, the defendant allegedly fled the scene, leaving behind several of his personal belongings, including his passport and Social Security card.
Less than 10 minutes later, at 4:50 p.m., the defendant allegedly attacked a 35-year-old woman near 1707 Flatbush Avenue and attempted to steal her phone and wallet. During the assault, the defendant ripped a ponytail extension off the victim’s head and threw a drink in her face. He also punched her body and face.
The 66-year-old victim was taken to Mount Sinai and treated for bruising, lacerations, and an abrasion on her forehead. The 35-year-old victim refused medical attention at the scene.
Furthermore, the defendant has also been charged with third-degree assault on a separate criminal complaint for allegedly attacking a 52-year-old woman on August 18, 2024, at approximately 4:30 p.m., near 1608 Flatbush Avenue. According to the investigation, the defendant pulled the victim to the ground, causing injuries to her elbow, knee, and back. The incident was captured on surveillance video.
The defendant was arrested on August 22, 2024.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Amanda Schaefer of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
