Fugitive Indicted for Murder of 15-Year-Old in Bensonhurst Extradited from Panama to Face Prosecution - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 28, 2024
Fugitive Indicted for Murder of 15-Year-Old in Bensonhurst
Extradited from Panama to Face Prosecution
Defendant Allegedly Shot the Victim in Broad Daylight After Dispute Among Teens
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a fugitive who fled to Panama after allegedly shooting a teenager in Bensonhurst last summer has been returned to Brooklyn to faces charges in the boy’s death.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant was returned to Brooklyn from Panama and will now be brought to justice for allegedly killing Faridun Mavlonov, who was just 15 years old and had his whole life ahead of him. Hopefully this prosecution will bring some solace to Faridun’s heartbroken family and friends.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Leopoldo Nash Montoya, 18, formerly of Brooklyn. The defendant was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Craig S. Walker on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, first-degree attempted gang assault, and third-degree assault. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on July 3, 2024. If convicted, he faces up to 25 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 12, 2023, in the vicinity of 20th Avenue and 60th Street, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the defendant, acting in concert with others, punched and kicked a 16-year-old boy about the head and body, causing physical injuries.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, on July 17, 2023, at approximately 1 p.m., in the vicinity of 20th Avenue and 62nd Street, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the defendant displayed a firearm and repeatedly discharged the firearm at the 16-year-old boy who was walking with a group of friends. The defendant struck one of the individuals in the group, Faridun Mavlonov, 15, who was rushed to a local hospital and died the following day of one gunshot wound to the torso, which perforated his heart.
Following an investigation, including a review of extensive video surveillance footage, the defendant was identified. He was arrested in Panama on June 5, 2024 and returned to Brooklyn yesterday.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
