Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison in Death of Child - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 5, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison in Death of Child
Cause of Death was Battered Child Syndrome, Blunt Force Injury to Torso
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for striking and causing the death of his girlfriend’s four-year-old son, Jayce Eubanks. An autopsy determined that the child had numerous old and new injuries about his body and suffered from battered child syndrome.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The autopsy of this innocent child revealed that he suffered unthinkable and repeated abuse in his short life and ultimately died at the hands of this defendant. I am committed to protecting children in our communities from child abusers and today’s sentence holds this defendant accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jerimiah Johnson, 30, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 15 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on April 17, 2024.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 12, 2021, at approximately 5:30 a.m., inside the child’s home, located on Baltic Street in the Gowanus Houses, in Brooklyn, his mother, Rickia Delvalle, was awakened by the defendant, who was holding Jayce in his arms and who stated that the child said he could not breathe and had collapsed to the floor. The mother observed that the child was not breathing and appeared completely unresponsive.
Jayce was taken to Brooklyn Hospital Center, where he was pronounced dead at approximately 6:54 a.m.
An autopsy performed by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner determined that Jayce had numerous old and new injuries, including multiple bruises and abrasions to his body, limbs, back, chest and abdomen; a healing skull fracture, multiple healing and recent rib fractures on both sides of the chest, trauma to the stomach causing it to perforate, causing bleeding into the gastrointestinal tract and abdominal cavity, and that the cause of death was battered child syndrome with recent blunt force injuries of the torso.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Perry Cerrato, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel Newcombe, also of the Special Victims Bureau, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
