Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison For Fatal Shooting in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 18, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison
For Fatal Shooting in East New York
Defendant Convicted of Second-Degree Murder Following Jury Trial
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a man at point-blank range in East New York, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence brings the defendant to justice for a reprehensible act of violence. It should also send a strong message that shooting guns in our streets cannot and will not be tolerated, and that my office is committed to holding to account anyone who commits crimes that ruin lives and jeopardize public safety in Brooklyn.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as David Cruz, 33, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 7, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on the evening of May 25, 2015, William Perez, 34, was headed to a Memorial Day barbecue in East New York with a group of friends when he crossed paths with the defendant and two associates.
According to the evidence, at approximately 8:55 p.m., as Perez and his friends neared the intersection of New Lots and Shepherd Avenues, Perez’s 22-year-old friend was shot at multiple times causing the group to flee down Shepherd Avenue. At one point, according to the evidence, Perez turned back towards the corner where his friend had been shot. The defendant then caught up to Perez and shot him once in the back with 40-caliber pistol.
The defendant fled down Shepherd Avenue where he tossed the firearm in the front yard of a nearby daycare.
Perez was taken to Brookdale Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant was arrested on November 5, 2018, following an investigation. A previous trial ended in a mistrial.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Cassandra Pond, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
