Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Three-and-a-Half Years in Prison For Assaulting and Slashing Stranger with Knife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 18, 2024
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Three-and-a-Half Years in Prison
For Assaulting and Slashing Stranger with Knife
Defendant Also Assaulted Bystander Who Tried to Intervene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced today that a Bushwick man has been sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison for slashing a stranger on the street with a knife and attacking a bystander who tried to intervene.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Keeping the people of Brooklyn safe is my highest priority, and violent offenders such as this defendant will face serious consequences. Today’s sentence holds him accountable for a random and vicious assault.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Michael Ruiz, 46, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Laura Johnson to three-and-a-half years in prison and three years’ post-release supervision. (The DA’s Office recommended a five-year sentence.) The defendant was convicted of second-degree assault and third-degree attempted assault on August 19, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 28, 2022, at approximately 2:15 a.m., the victim, a 39-year-old man, was talking on the phone outside his apartment on Berry Street, in Greenpoint. He was approached by the defendant, a stranger, who told him, “I own this block” and threatened to kill him. The defendant left, went to his car, and returned with a knife. He continued to threaten the victim.
When a bystander tried to intervene, according to the evidence, the defendant punched the man in the face. He then turned his attention back to the victim and kicked him to the ground. As the victim lay on the ground, the defendant repeatedly kicked his face and slashed him across the arm with a knife.
The victim was treated for a fractured orbital bone, a laceration under his eye, and a laceration across his arm requiring approximately 15 stitches.
The attack was captured on surveillance footage.
The defendant was arrested on October 6, 2022.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sanam Shah, and Assistant District Attorney Alexander John Davis, both of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Courtney Hogg, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Robert Walsh, Bureau Chief.
#
