Bronx Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Stabbing Transit Worker in Brooklyn Subway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 15, 2025
Bronx Man Sentenced to 15 Years in Prison for Stabbing
Transit Worker in Brooklyn Subway
Defendant Pleaded Guilty to Attempted Murder
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison following his guilty plea to attempted murder for stabbing an MTA subway conductor 11 times inside a Brooklyn subway station.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant nearly killed an innocent man working to keep New York City running. Today’s significant sentence holds him accountable for this vicious attack on a hardworking train conductor. As subway crime continues to trend downward, my office will remain relentless in protecting both transit workers and riders in Brooklyn and ensuring that those who commit violence in the system are held accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jonathan Davalos, 28, of the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Carolina Holderness to 15 years in prison and five years of post-release supervision. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted murder on August 25, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 8, 2024, at approximately 10:40 a.m., aboard a number 4 train subway car at the Crown Heights-Utica Avenue station in Brooklyn the victim, a 59-year-old subway operator, was attempting to clear the subway at the last stop on the train when he encountered the defendant. The operator asked the defendant to exit the subway, but he refused. The defendant then pulled a kitchen knife from his jacket pocket and lunged at the victim with the knife.
The victim then ran away from the defendant, who chased the victim down the platform. The victim tripped and fell onto the platform and the defendant straddled him before stabbing him about the body. A witness alerted police officers at the station, who responded immediately, drew their weapons and ordered the defendant to stop. The defendant then stood up, dropped the knife, and was placed under arrest.
The victim, who was stabbed 11 times, was taken to Kings County Hospital in serious condition and survived his injuries.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal Jamal Marshall for his assistance on this case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg and Assistant District Attorneys Garrett Hines and Holley Howell, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi, Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
