Bronx Driver Sentenced to up to 12 Years in Prison for Fatal Red-Light Crash in Sunset Park - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Bronx Driver Sentenced to up to 12 Years in Prison for Fatal Red-Light Crash in Sunset Park
Defendant Ran Multiple Red Lights at High Speeds, Refused to Stop for Police,
Then Collided with Another Vehicle, Killing that Driver
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been sentenced to four to 12 years in prison in connection with a fatal 2021 crash in Sunset Park. The defendant sped through a red light, struck another vehicle, and attempted to flee the scene.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “By refusing to stop for police and speeding through one red light after another, this defendant caused a devastating crash that stole the life of James Lopez, an innocent man simply driving lawfully through an intersection. Today’s sentence holds him accountable for that tragic loss, and my office remains committed to seeking justice for victims and their families.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Elvis Nolasco, 28, of the Bronx. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Kim Petersen to an indeterminate term of four to 12 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on July 31, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on October 17, 2021, at approximately 4:25 a.m., the defendant was driving a white Mercedes southbound on Third Avenue in Sunset Park at a high rate of speed. NYPD officers activated their lights and sirens and attempted to pull over the defendant, who refused to stop and accelerated. The pursing officers’ speedometer reached 80 miles per hour as the defendant ran through multiple red lights. At the intersection of 60th Street, the defendant sped through another red light and T-boned a Nissan Altima driven by James Lopez, 42, who was lawfully proceeding through the intersection. Mr. Lopez was taken to NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn, where he died.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the defendant attempted to flee the scene on foot, but was apprehended nearby hiding under a parked car. A subsequent investigation revealed that the defendant was driving with a suspended license.
The defendant was arrested on April 18, 2023, following an investigation led by the NYPD’s Collision Investigation Squad.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Danyelle Shapiro and Assistant District Attorney Bianca Kushner, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Nocella, Chief of the Street Safety Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Chief of the Green Zone.
#
