Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatally Shooting 15-Year-Old Near NYCHA Playground - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, January 7, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison
for Fatally Shooting 15-Year-Old Near NYCHA Playground
Defendant Fired into a Crowd of People at the Bushwick Houses
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 15-year-old boy at the Bushwick Houses in 2018. A 43-year-old man was also wounded by the defendant when he opened fire on a playground and into a crowded courtyard where children were present.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a despicable act of gun violence that took the life of an innocent teenage boy and left an entire family and community traumatized. Senseless shootings like this tear at the fabric of our neighborhoods, leaving lasting pain and fear. Everyone deserves to feel secure in their community, and we will continue to hold accountable those who threaten innocent lives with such brazen and callous violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Elijah Harris, 25, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree assault, and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on October 3, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 17, 2018, at approximately 2:40 p.m., the defendant was riding a bike on the sidewalk, near 370 and 390 Bushwick Avenue, when he took out a handgun. The defendant then fired at least nine times on a playground and into a courtyard of the Bushwick Houses where a crowd of over 15 people were gathered, including children. The defendant’s gunfire struck Kyon Jackson, 15, in the chest; another shot struck a 43-year-old man in the cheek.
Jackson, a ninth grader at Lyons Community School, was rushed to Woodhull Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant was arrested shortly thereafter by police and the handgun was recovered.
The District Attorney thanked Intelligence Analyst Lakeisha Taylor for her assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Tillman, of the District Attorney’s Grey Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
