Seven Alleged Gang Members Variously Indicted for Attempted Murder and Gun Possession - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, July 11, 2025
Seven Alleged Gang Members Variously Indicted for
Attempted Murder and Gun Possession
Variously Charged in Connection with Five Separate Incidents in East Flatbush;
One Innocent Woman Struck; Another Almost Struck as She Sat in Beauty Salon
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Jessica S. Tisch, today announced that seven alleged members of the 8-Trey Crips gang were variously charged in connection with two attempted murder incidents and three cases of criminal possession of a weapon. All incidents happened in East Flatbush within a three-month span earlier this year and mostly involved the defendants allegedly firing at perceived rivals.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These cases are part of our ongoing efforts to get violent gang members off the streets and improve safety across Brooklyn. We do that through long-term conspiracy investigations and in response to individual incidents as we did today. The goal is the same: focusing on the small number of shooters who are willing to pick up a gun and open fire in our communities to ensure that they cannot harm anyone else. These incidents, where only innocent bystanders were struck or almost hit, exemplifies how dangerous this criminal behavior can be, and why it is vital for us to take swift action.”
Commissioner Tisch said, “The 8-Trey Crips gang allegedly turned East Flatbush into a violent playground, shooting and seriously injuring New Yorkers in broad daylight and putting many more lives at risk. That ends today. The NYPD has carried out more than 40 gang-related takedowns this year alone, resulting in over 300 arrests and the recovery of more than 230 illegal guns from our streets–and these arrests make one thing very clear: We are not backing down. I’m grateful to the investigators from the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division and the 67th Precinct Detective Squad, as well as the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, for their relentless work to dismantle this criminal network and bring these young offenders to justice.”
New York City Mayor Eric Adams said, “Gun violence puts lives at risk and tears at the fabric of our neighborhoods. We will never allow gang members to commit violence and act with impunity on New York City streets. With the arrest and indictments of these seven alleged 8-Trey Crips gang members, we are delivering justice for East Flatbush and sending a clear message that this kind of criminal activity will never be tolerated. Working with our law enforcement partners, we’re continuing to target the small number of people responsible for a large share of the violence — and we won’t stop until every New Yorker feels safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Jaziah Waldron, 17, Jahfyah Selassie, 20, Omar Jones, 16, Malik Johnson, 17, and Dylon Val, 15, who have been charged with a top count of second-degree attempted murder. In addition, Dymond George, 21, and another one of the defendants have been named in separate indictments charging them with second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. George, Johnson, Val, and Jones were arraigned today. Salassie, Waldron and Gonzalez were arraigned in May. They were ordered held on bail ranging from $20,000 to $500,000, except for Johnson and Jones who were ordered released without bail.
The District Attorney said that the defendants are alleged 8-Trey gang members, a subset of the Crips under the Woo umbrella, who predominantly operate in the 40s blocks of East Flatbush. The five indictments pertain to these five incidents:
On February 19, 2025, at 5:05 p.m., one of the defendants allegedly fired into a beauty salon located on Snyder Avenue, nearly striking three innocent people inside, including a woman who reported a bullet whizzing through her hair.
On April 25, 2025, at 6:20 p.m., Waldron, with the help of Selassie, allegedly shot in the direction of a rival gang member on Church Avenue and struck an innocent woman in the hand. The two defendants allegedly swapped clothes with each other after the shooting.
On May 7, 2025, at 3:50 p.m., it is alleged that Val opened fire at an unknown target, believed to be a rival. The shooting took place in broad daylight with children visible in the video. No one was struck. The evidence shows that Johnson allegedly wore a backpack from which Val retrieved and returned the gun, then exchanged clothes with Val after the shooting. Jones allegedly pointed out the target and can be heard on video saying, “He’s right there, blow that s—t.”
On May 8, 2025, at 10 a.m., police responded to a 911 call about a group menacing someone with a gun. Responding officers observed Gonzalez allegedly throwing a gun under a car and another gun was allegedly recovered from Waldron.
On May 9, 2025, at 7:31 p.m., George allegedly shot at a rival gang member, according to ballistic and video evidence. No one was struck.
The investigation was conducted by the New York City Police Department’s Gun Violence Suppression Division and the 67th Precinct Detective Squad.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Kellen Michuda and James Buchsbaum, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Douglas Marquez, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
