Coney Island Man Arraigned for Brooklyn Slashing Spree That Left Three Seriously Wounded - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 10, 2025
Coney Island Man Arraigned for Brooklyn Slashing Spree
That Left Three Seriously Wounded
Victims Suffered Deep Facial and Neck Wounds in Unprovoked Attacks
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Coney Island man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is accused of a series of violent, unprovoked attacks that left three men with serious injuries. The defendant was also linked to a burglary and arson inside a nearby residential building, where he allegedly set multiple fires before fleeing.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These were terrifying, unprovoked assaults that brutalized three innocent men and could have killed someone. Brooklyn is safer today than it has been in decades, with homicides and gun violence at record lows, and we will not allow anyone to undermine that hard-won progress. My office will pursue this case aggressively to ensure accountability and protect the public.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Odyssey Head, 27, of Coney Island, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Adam Perlmutter on an indictment charging him with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, second-degree arson and other related counts. The defendant was ordered held without bail, to undergo a psychiatric exam and to return to court on January 21, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on October 25, 2025, at approximately 6:30 a.m., aboard a northbound Q train near Cortelyou Road and E. 16
th
St. in Flatbush, the defendant allegedly randomly slashed a 37-year-old man with a razor blade from lip to cheek, causing a deep facial wound that required multiple stitches.
Later that same day, at approximately 10 p.m., a 53-year-old man was standing at the corner of Foster Avenue and New York Avenue in East Flatbush when the defendant allegedly approached and slashed him across the left side of his face from eye to ear with a knife, causing a deep laceration. The victim required 25 stitches to close the wound.
Furthermore, it is alleged that the next day, on October 26, 2025, a 56-year-old man was walking on Newkirk Avenue in East Flatbush when the defendant slashed him across the neck without warning, narrowly missing an artery. He required more than a dozen stitches.
According to the investigation, that same weekend, on October 25, 2025, the defendant allegedly broke into a residential building on New York Avenue in Flatbush, where he damaged property and set fire to items inside the basement laundry area. He then allegedly walked to the first-floor trash compactor room and ignited additional items before fleeing.
The defendant was arrested after police circulated a wanted flyer for the arson incident and subsequently identified him as the individual allegedly responsible for the three slashings. At the time of his arrest, officers recovered a kitchen knife believed to have been used in the attacks.
The District Attorney thanked St. Paul Community Baptist Church, the Oyate Group, Junior’s Restaurant and local elected officials for their assistance in providing donations and in promoting the event.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Holly Hay and James Buchsbaum, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Douglas Marquez, Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
