Brooklyn Doctor Sentenced to up to Six Years in Prison In Connection with Sexual Abuse of Female Patient - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 19, 2025
Brooklyn Doctor Sentenced to up to Six Years in Prison
In Connection with Sexual Abuse of Female Patient
Victim was Abused by Defendant During Appointment for Sinus Infection
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn doctor who sexually abused a patient at a clinic in Carroll Gardens and later illegally obtained her records was sentenced to up to six years in prison. He was convicted earlier this year following a jury trial.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant used his power and stature as a doctor to victimize a vulnerable woman, which is an unconscionable betrayal. I hope today’s sentence brings some closure to the victim and her family and I remain steadfast in my commitment to protect victims of sex crimes.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Jamil Ibrahim, 56, of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phyllis Chu to two to six years in prison. The defendant was convicted on January 21, 2025 of third-degree sexual abuse, third-degree burglary and computer trespass.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on March 18, 2018, the victim, a 47-year-old woman, went to the Pro Health clinic at 330 Court Street in Carroll Gardens for treatment of a sinus infection. The defendant was her doctor. As he was touching her throat, he pressed his erect penis against her inner knee/thigh area. She moved her legs further apart so he wouldn’t come into contact with her, and he pressed himself against her again, according to the evidence. This happened approximately four to five times.
After the checkup, the victim texted her friend about what happened and asked to speak to the defendant’s supervisor but was told no supervisors were available. She went home and called the police and officers came to her home. The defendant was arrested on April 22, 2018. He was later suspended from Pro Health and his access to all Pro Health clinics and computer records was terminated. However, on June 16, 2018, the defendant walked into the Pro Health clinic on 18th Avenue in Bensonhurst and obtained copies of the victim’s records.
Furthermore, two additional women who filed complaints with the New York State Department of Health alleging sexual abuse by the defendant testified at trial.
One victim, a 39-year-old woman, testified that she went to see the defendant for a bladder and sinus infection on January 9, 2014, at an Urgent Care. She testified that the defendant allegedly put a stethoscope on her back under her clothing and put his other hand on her breasts over her clothing and held it there for several seconds. The victim testified that she became alarmed and after the appointment told her husband and then reported the defendant to the Department of Health. She did not report the alleged incident to the police and the statute of limitations prohibits charges from being filed at this time.
The other alleged victim, who was 23 years old at the time, testified that she went to see the defendant at a City MD on March 23, 2014, after falling against a wooden bench and bruising her leg. She testified that when the defendant learned the woman was from Las Vegas he allegedly asked her if she was a stripper while caressing her upper thigh, which was not where she was bruised. The patient testified that she was shocked and reported the defendant to the front desk before she left. Her complaint was referred to the Department of Health.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal Supervisor Jennifer Hernandez of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau for her assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Gwen Barnes and Senior Assistant District Attorney Chelsea Jacobi of the Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
