Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years to Life in Prison For Murder of Deli Clerk During Flatbush Robbery - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, July 15, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years to Life in Prison
For Murder of Deli Clerk During Flatbush Robbery
Masked Defendant Shot 20-Year-Old Victim in the Head
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 19 years to life in prison following his guilty plea to second-degree murder for shooting a deli clerk in the head during a robbery. The defendant, who fled following the shooting, was apprehended in Newark, New Jersey.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a cold-blooded and senseless execution of a young man who was simply doing his job. Fadhl Moosa’s life was cut short in an act of shocking violence that has devastated his family and shaken the community. Today’s sentence ensures that the defendant will be held accountable for this horrific crime, and I hope it brings some measure of justice and closure to Fadhl’s loved ones.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Ricardo Senatus, 32, of Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 19 years to life in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dineen Riviezzo. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder on June 24, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on December 14, 2021, at approximately 7:30 p.m., the defendant entered a deli located at 803 Flatbush Avenue, wearing a mask and armed with a firearm. He went behind the counter and pointed the firearm at the store clerk, Fadhl Moosa, 20, and demanded money from the cash register.
Furthermore, the District Attorney said, a physical struggle ensued between the defendant and the clerk and ended with the defendant shooting the victim in the head. The defendant left the store, then realized he forgot to take the money. He returned to the store, stepped over the dying victim’s body, and retrieved the money from the cash register.
The defendant fled the scene and was apprehended in Newark, New Jersey on December 20, 2021.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
