Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Killing Father Defending His Daughter in Crown Heights - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 29, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 18 Years in Prison for Killing
Father Defending His Daughter in Crown Height
s
A Co-defendant Was Previously Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 18 years in prison for the fatal shooting of a man at the Kingsborough Houses in Crown Heights. The victim, a 43-year-old father, died defending his teenage daughter from the defendant and a co-defendant during an armed burglary attempt.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Phillip Scarlett died protecting his teenage daughter from two armed men in the ultimate act of a father’s bravery. While no sentence can heal the pain of this loss, the long prison terms these defendants received for this senseless killing delivers accountability. Even as gun violence in Brooklyn is at a record low, this case underscores the importance of the work we do every day to make our city safer.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Rashawn Brown, 29, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 18 years in prison and five years of post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht. The defendant pleaded guilty to one count of first-degree manslaughter on June 5, 2025.
A co-defendant, Waki Bullock, 33, of Crown Heights, was convicted of two counts of second-degree murder on December 9, 2024, following a jury trial. He was sentenced by Justice Hecht to 18 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on January 13, 2019, at approximately 1:30 p.m., inside 219 Kingsborough 2 Walk, a building within NYCHA’s Kingsborough Houses, in Crown Heights, the defendant and his co-defendant shot and killed 43-year-old Phillip Scarlett. Scarlett was expecting a visit from his 14-year-old daughter, who was heading to the sixth-floor apartment to get laundry money. As the girl approached the entrance, the defendant and his co-defendant, who were standing in the hallway wearing masks and armed, grabbed her before she could enter. The girl yelled out for her father who in response ran to the door and was able to pull the girl away from the masked men. The victim used his body to shield his daughter from the defendant and co-defendant by pushing her into the apartment. The defendant and co-defendant then grabbed the victim, dragged him down the staircase where, according to the evidence, they shot him in the hip and thigh.
The victim was taken to Interfaith Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant was apprehended on October 2, 2020.
The District Attorney thanked KCDA Digital Evidence Lab Intelligence Analyst Zoë Feygin and Unit Chief Jingu Chong for their work on this case.
The District Attorney also thanked Homicide Paralegal Angelika Rostkowska and Blue Zone Paralegal Sharlesia Agaga.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Joseph Mancino, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Jessica Wishart, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
