Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and the NYPD To Offer $500 for Handguns at Bedford-Stuyvesant Gun Buyback - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 03, 2025
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and the NYPD
To Offer $500 for Handguns at Bedford-Stuyvesant Gun Buyback
Will be Held at Cornerstone Baptist Church on Saturday, April 5
No ID Required, No Questions Asked
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and New York City Police Commissioner Jessica S. Tisch today announced that a Gun Buyback event will be held on Saturday, April 5, 2025, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at Cornerstone Baptist Church, located at 574 Madison Street in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn. Those who turn in operable guns and assault rifles will receive a $500 bank card.
Media availability will take place on Saturday, April 5, 2025, at 4 p.m.
(members of the press are asked not to arrive before 3:30 p.m.).
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Brooklyn made historic progress in reducing gun violence last year, with shootings at their lowest level on record and homicides significantly down. That progress is continuing in 2025, and our gun buyback events have played a meaningful role, with more than 500 firearms turned in over the past few years. This Saturday, every New Yorker has an opportunity to safely turn in a gun, reduce the risk of harm, earn some money, and help make our neighborhoods safer.”
NYPD Commissioner Tisch said, “The NYPD’s intensified efforts to combat gun violence are paying off — shootings are down a record 23 percent this year, and more than 1,300 illegal firearms have been taken off our streets. Each gun removed is a life potentially saved, a tragedy averted — and a step toward safer communities. That’s why programs like this are so essential. We’re proud to continue our partnership with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and Cornerstone Baptist Church to help keep the safest big city in America even safer.”
Pastor Lawrence E. Aker III of Cornerstone Baptist Church said, “Cornerstone is intentional about partnering with the District Attorney’s Office to get guns off the street. We will continue to collaborate to create a safe community and improve the quality of life for all of Brooklyn. We look forward to once again sharing in this initiative with DA Eric Gonzalez and the NYPD.”
The District Attorney said that his office will offer money in the form of a $500 bank card for each operable gun or assault rifle turned in. There will be an offer of a $200 bank card for ghost guns or 3D printed guns with a maximum of two per person. Participants will also receive a $75 bank card for each rifle or shotgun and a $25 bank card for each air gun, imitation pistol or a non-operable firearm. Two ghost gun limit per participant and three guns in total per participant.
No identification is required, and all transactions will be anonymous, no questions asked.
The bank cards will be issued after each firearm is received and screened by officers on site. Guns should be unloaded and packaged in a paper or plastic bag or a box when brought to the event. If transported by car, the guns must be kept in the trunk. Both working and inoperable weapons will be accepted. Active or retired law enforcement officers and licensed gun dealers are not eligible for this event.
Cornerstone Baptist Church is located a short walk away from a B15 bus stop and approximately 10 blocks from either the Kingston-Throop Avenue or the Utica Avenue stations on the A/C subway lines.
The DA’s Office hosts periodic Gun Buybacks throughout the year and in different Brooklyn neighborhoods.
#
