Brooklyn Driver Sentenced to up to Nine Years in Prison for Killing Mother and Two Daughters While Speeding Through a Red Light - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 19, 2025
Brooklyn Driver Sentenced to up to Nine Years in Prison for Killing
Mother and Two Daughters While Speeding Through a Red Light
Prosecutors Requested the Maximum Sentence of up to 15 Years;
Defendant Plowed Through Pedestrians in Ocean Parkway Crosswalk
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn woman was sentenced to a prison term of three to nine years for killing a mother and two daughters, injuring the family’s young son and several others while speeding through a steady red light. The defendant’s vehicle then crashed into an Uber that was waiting as the family crossed the intersection, plowing through the pedestrians as her car rolled over. The defendant previously pleaded guilty to three counts of reckless manslaughter when accepting the judge’s plea offer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is a reckless driver who cared about only herself when she raced in the streets of Brooklyn and wiped away nearly an entire family. She should not have been driving a car that day but, instead, she chose to callously ignore all traffic and safety laws when she caused this unspeakable carnage. While today’s sentence is shorter than the maximum we recommended, it sends a clear message that reckless driving will be vigorously prosecuted and met with serious consequences. I thank our prosecutors and the NYPD for their diligent work, and I stand with advocates urging legislation to require speed-limiting devices for drivers who have shown they cannot operate safely. We continue to hold Natasha Saada and her young daughters, Diana and Deborah, along with the other victims of this tragic crime and their loved ones, in our hearts.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Miriam Yarimi, 33, of Midwood, Brooklyn. She was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to an indeterminate sentence of three to nine years in prison following her guilty plea to three counts of second-degree manslaughter, which was taken on October 22, 2025. The DA’s Office recommended the maximum sentence of five to 15 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on March 29, 2025, at approximately 1:00 p.m., the defendant, whose license was suspended, was driving a 2023 Audi, turning onto Ocean Parkway. Video surveillance shows her using a cell phone while driving before her vehicle drove through a red light a block before the crash, narrowly avoiding other cars and continuing north on Ocean Parkway.
At the next intersection, at Quentin Road, the mother, Natasha Saada, 34, was crossing Ocean Parkway from west to east, holding hands with her three children, Diana, 8, Deborah, 5, and Philip, 4. The evidence shows that a Toyota Camry was in the process of turning right from Quentin Road onto Ocean Parkway and was waiting for the pedestrians to finish crossing.
When the family was a step or two from the sidewalk, the Audi driven by the defendant sped through the intersection against the light, smashed into the back of the turning Toyota and plowed through the victims with her car continuing to roll over, stopping about 130 feet away. According to evidence obtained from the black box, the Audi was traveling at about 68 mph (in a 25-mph zone), was at full throttle (suggesting the gas pedal was floored) and zero brake was applied.
The mother and two daughters were killed at the scene. Her son suffered skull fractures, brain bleeding and had a kidney removed. The Toyota had five occupants – the Uber driver, a mother and her three kids – who sustained minor injuries. The Audi ended up upside down and had to be cut to get the defendant out. She suffered minor physical injuries.
The District Attorney thanked detectives from the NYPD’s Collision Investigation Squad for their assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Michael Boykin, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, with assistance from Assistant District Attorneys Adam Ghalmi, of the Green Zone, and Aaron Gauthier, formerly of the Green Zone, and with additional assistance from Jennifer Nocella, Chief of the Street Safety Bureau, Christopher Velez, Deputy Bureau Chief of the Street Safety Bureau, Paralegals Devi Kempadoo and Lauryn Mordaunt, of the Street Safety Bureau, and Green Zone Supervising Paralegal Aneudy Mata, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Chief of the Green Zone.
#
