Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison for Ambush Stabbing Death in Tompkins Houses - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 18, 2025
Bedford-Stuyvesant Man Sentenced to 25 Years in
Prison for Ambush Stabbing Death in Tompkins Houses
Waited in Lobby Before Chasing and Fatally Stabbing 26-Year-Old Victim
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been sentenced to 25 years in prison for fatally stabbing a 26-year-old man during an attack at the Tompkins Houses in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where both the victim and defendant lived.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a deliberate and cold-blooded killing that left a man dead. With today’s sentence, we are delivering justice for the victim and protecting our community by making clear that those who bring this kind of irreversible harm will be removed from our streets. We will continue this approach as we keep driving Brooklyn’s crime numbers down.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Marquis Shiloh, 35, of Bedford-Stuyvesant. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 25 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of first-degree manslaughter on July 31, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 12, 2023, at approximately 8:40 p.m., the defendant waited in the lobby of 760 Park Avenue, part of the Tompkins Houses in Bedford-Stuyvesant, as Stephon Sinclair, 26, rode the elevator down. When the doors opened and Sinclair stepped out, the defendant punched him. A physical altercation ensued but, as the victim tried to retreat from the building, the defendant, assisted by a co-defendant, pursued him outside, took out a knife and stabbed him once in the left leg and once in the lower right leg, severing an artery and vein. The victim collapsed nearby and was taken to Kings County Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
The defendant fled the scene with the help of a co-defendant and was arrested on August 2, 2023, following an investigation by the NYPD’s 79th Precinct and the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad.
The co-defendant pleaded guilty in July 2025 to third-degree assault for assisting the defendant during the attack, including striking the victim as he lay on the ground. In August, Justice Leo sentenced her to a conditional discharge.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Aleena Peerzada and Assistant District Attorney Kaitlin Kinsella, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Chief of the Blue Zone.
#
