Former Brooklyn Teacher Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison Following Guilty Plea to Use of a Child in Sexual Performance and Endangering the Welfare of Children for Coaxing Teens to Send Him Sexual Images - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 19, 2025
Former Brooklyn Teacher Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison Following
Guilty Plea to Use of a Child in Sexual Performance and Endangering the Welfare of Children for Coaxing Teens to Send Him Sexual Images
Solicited Photos and Videos and Engaged in
Graphic Conversations with Six Young Victims Attending Elite Schools
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a former math teacher who pleaded guilty to use of a child in a sexual performance as a sexually motivated felony and five counts of endangering the welfare of a child was sentenced to seven years in prison and must register as a sex offender upon his release. The defendant admitted to enticing or trying to entice teenage students from four Brooklyn independent schools to send him images of nudity and sexual performances. A former teacher at Saint Ann’s School in Brooklyn Heights, he pretended to be a young teen and fellow student when engaging in conversations of a sexual nature over the messaging application Snapchat.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a sickening betrayal of trust by a schoolteacher who solicited students into sending him graphic and nude photos. Today’s sentencing holds him accountable for his actions while sparing the young and vulnerable victims from having to relive this emotional abuse in court. I commend the prosecutors and investigators who brought this defendant to justice, and the young survivors who bravely stepped forward.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Winston Nguyen, 38, of Harlem, New York. He was sentenced by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phillip Tisne to seven years in prison and 10 years’ post-release supervision. He pleaded guilty earlier this month to one count of use of a child in a sexual performance as a sexually motivated felony and five counts of endangering the welfare of a child. He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant presented himself as a young teen while having conversations with children on Snapchat. He was charged with crimes against six children who went to various elite independent schools in Brooklyn.
The charged incidents took place between October 2022 and May 2024, when the victims were between the ages of 13 and 15 years old. The defendant used two Snapchat accounts, hunterkristoff and haircutbongos, to contact the victims, pretending to be a teenage boy. The defendant sent nude images and videos that depicted a teenage boy masturbating to the victims.  The defendant also used the accounts to engage in prolonged conversations that described and depicted various sexual acts and got the victims to send images and videos of the victims engaged in sexual performance to him through the Snapchat accounts.
According to the investigation, the two Snapchat accounts mentioned above were connected to IP addresses associated with the defendant, including his Harlem residence, other evidence includes digital communications and images, and accounts from victims.
The case was investigated by KCDA Detective Investigators, with the assistance of Senior Digital Forensic Analyst Sourov Talukder and Digital Forensic Analyst Richard Rojas, of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel Brian Newcombe, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
