Fugitive Arraigned for 2017 Murder of Visiting College Student - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, January 9, 2025
Fugitive Arraigned for 2017 Murder of Visiting College Student
Allegedly Shot Victim During Fight that Followed Earlier Confrontation;
Defendant’s Brother and Co-defendant Was Arrested in Texas in 2019
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man who was a fugitive from justice since 2017 has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with murder after getting arrested in Albany, NY. The defendant is charged – along with his brother – with allegedly shooting 20-year-old Justin Hackley to death in when he tried to stop a fight the defendants initiated with his friend.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This case involved the tragic death of an innocent young man with a promising future who was senselessly killed on a Brooklyn street. His relatives have been waiting for justice as his alleged killers spent years trying to evade capture. We are determined to now hold them responsible for the deadly gun violence they allegedly perpetrated. As shootings in Brooklyn reach record lows, my office will continue to ensure accountability and justice in every case.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dean Boland, 35, of Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Susan Quirk on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon. The defendant was ordered held without bail and to return to court on February 3, 2025. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison if convicted. The defendant was arrested this morning in Albany by U.S. Marshals.
The defendant’s brother and co-defendant, Rasheed Boland, 32, was arrested in Texas in 2019 after living there under an assumed name. His case is pending. Both defendants were indicted in 2017, approximately two months after the homicide.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on July 11, 2017, Rasheed Boland was hitting on a woman, sparking a fight with her boyfriend, with a friend of the boyfriend intervening to stop it. Rasheed Boland allegedly went home, got his brother and the two of them returned to the area, each of them armed with a gun, and they started to look for the men they had fought.
At about 11:35 p.m., Hackley – who was visiting home while on a break from summer school at Delaware State University – stepped out of an Ocean Avenue building near Church Avenue, with his friend, who was the person who intervened in the earlier fight. The two brothers then allegedly crossed the street and started to pistol whip the friend. Hackley started to struggle with Rasheed Boland and was shot twice, according to the evidence. Dean Boland was disarmed by the victim’s friend and another man. Both defendants fled.
The victim was pronounced dead from gunshots at Kings County Hospital Center. Surveillance videos and DNA evidence connected the defendants to the crime, and their photos were distributed to the media. They were also featured on a number of TV shows as part of the efforts to capture them.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
