Brownsville Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for Shooting Man Five Times in Broad Daylight Following Dispute - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 18, 2025
Brownsville Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for
Shooting Man Five Times in Broad Daylight Following Dispute
Defendant Left Area After Argument, Returned with a Gun, and Chased and Shot the Victim
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for shooting another man following an argument at a deli in Brownsville. The defendant was convicted of attempted murder following a jury trial.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Brooklyn is safer with this defendant behind bars. His brazen violence in broad daylight could have easily cost an innocent life, and today’s sentence ensures he can no longer endanger our community. I am grateful to our prosecutors and the NYPD for their outstanding work on this case.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Orando Matthan, 25, of Brownsville, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Margaret Martin to 10 years in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on June 25, 2025, following a jury trial.
Two co-defendants, Jeovanie Nelson and Alex Davis, previously pleaded guilty in connection to this case. Nelson, 25, pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on May 7, 2025, and was sentenced to five years in prison. Davis, 24, pleaded guilty to second-degree hindering prosecution on January 8, 2025, and is awaiting sentencing.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 3, 2023, the defendant and his co-defendant, Jeovanie Nelson, got into an argument with the victim, a 25-year-old man, at a deli located at 1167 Lenox Road in Brownsville. The defendant shoved the victim before leaving the deli with Nelson. The pair walked to the defendant’s home, and the defendant went inside and got a loaded gun, showed it to Nelson and put it into his own hoodie pocket, according to the evidence, and they walked back to the deli and got into another argument with the victim. The defendant walked to the back of the deli and reached into his pocket, but by the time he returned to the front of the deli the victim had already left.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, at approximately 1:46 p.m., the defendant located the victim in front of a store at 332 East 98th Street, in Brownsville. The defendant began firing shots at the victim, who ran into the store. The defendant chased the victim and fired from the store doorway at point-blank range. The victim was struck five times: in the hip, forearm, pinky, thigh, and head. He was taken to Brookdale Hospital and underwent lifesaving surgery.
The defendants fled the scene to a location on Saratoga Avenue, which is the home of another co-defendant, Alex Davis. The defendants stripped off their clothes while running to change their appearances and the defendant got rid of the gun by discarding it in a garbage can. Nelson called Davis (who was not home) and asked him to come and pick them up, according to the evidence, and said: “I just got a body.” Davis picked them up and they fled the area.
The defendants were arrested on July 25, 2023, following an investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Werner Kuang, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karen Varriale, Deputy Bureau Chief, with assistance from Assistant District Attorney Matthew Stewart, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
