Brooklyn Man Indicted for Drunk Driving Crash That Injured Two NYPD Officers and Passenger - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 4, 2025
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Drunk Driving Crash That
Injured Two NYPD Officers and Passenger
Officers Hospitalized After Defendant Allegedly
Ran Red Light and Rolled SUV
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with aggravated vehicular assault and related offenses for allegedly driving drunk, running a red light and crashing into a police vehicle — seriously injuring his passenger and two officers in Gravesend. Two additional individuals refused medical attention on the scene, and one person was treated by EMS on site.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly made the reckless decision to get behind the wheel while intoxicated, causing serious injuries to numerous people, including two police officers who were simply doing their jobs. My office is fully committed to holding dangerous drivers accountable and keeping Brooklyn streets safe for everyone.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Diyrojon Sobirjonov, 24, of Midwood. He was arraigned today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Christopher Robles on an indictment in which he is charged with two counts of aggravated vehicular assault, two counts of first-degree vehicular assault, six counts of second-degree vehicular assault, three counts of second-degree assault, two counts of operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol as a misdemeanor, reckless driving, failure to comply with a traffic control sign, excessive speed and driving in excess of maximum speed limits. Bail was set at $150,000 cash or $500,000 bond. The defendant was ordered to return to court on October 6, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on June 15, 2025, at approximately 2:30 a.m., the defendant was driving a 2024 Chevrolet Suburban northbound on Coney Island Avenue in Gravesend when he allegedly ran a red light at Avenue U at a high rate of speed and struck a 2024 Volvo in a T-bone crash. The Suburban then rolled over and slammed into a marked police vehicle, injuring two uniformed NYPD officers inside. The defendant’s front-seat passenger was ejected from the vehicle and was found lying unconscious in the street, bleeding heavily from the head. According to evidence obtained from the black box, the Suburban was traveling at about 88 mph (in a 25-mph zone), was at full throttle (suggesting the gas pedal was floored) and zero brake was applied at the time of the collision.
One officer suffered a fractured hip and femur, a chin laceration and underwent pelvic surgery that involved the insertion of a metal rod. The second officer sustained multiple pelvic fractures, a fractured arm and a concussion. Both officers required multiple surgeries following the crash. The passenger was in critical but stable condition.
The defendant allegedly had a blood alcohol content above the legal limit of .08.
The District Attorney thanked detectives of the NYPD’s Highway District Brooklyn Collision Investigation Squad and the detectives of the NYPD’s Brooklyn South Video Team for their case enhancement and assistance in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Adam Ghalmi, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, with assistance from Jennifer Nocella, Chief of the Street Safety Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Boykin, Deputy Bureau Chief, and under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Bureau Chief.
#
