Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Life in Prison Without the Possibility Of Parole for Execution-Style Killing of Livery Cab Driver in East New York - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 28, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to Life in Prison Without the Possibility
Of Parole for Execution-Style Killing of Livery Cab Driver in East New York
Defendant Convicted of First-Degree Murder following Jury Trial
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for fatally shooting a livery cab driver in East New York, Brooklyn. The defendant forced the driver out of the car and onto his knees before shooting him twice in the head.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The victim in this case was a dedicated son and brother who worked overnight shifts to earn extra money. His life was destroyed when this defendant cruelly and needlessly executed him while trying to rob him. My thoughts are with his heartbroken family and friends. I remain committed to keeping people safe from violence such as this, which devastates so many lives.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Terrence Reece, 32, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Eugene Guarino to life in prison without the possibility of parole. The defendant was convicted of first-degree murder on January 31, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 26, 2019, at approximately 3:30 a.m., the defendant got into the victim’s cab and coerced him to drive to a remote street corner in East New York, in the vicinity of Atlantic Avenue and Williams Avenue, after arguing with him about the cost of a fare.
The evidence showed that the defendant ordered the victim, Noman Saleemi, 29, out of his car, knelt him down, shot him once through the cheek, waited a period, and then shot him in the back of the head while he lay on the ground. The defendant then stole the victim’s wallet, which contained less than $100, and fled in the vehicle to his wife’s residence where he had her dispose of the murder weapon.
The victim’s car was found later that same day parked outside of his wife’s residence and his DNA and latent print were lifted from the driver’s area of the vehicle. The defendant was arrested on August 16, 2019, following further investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegals John Homnick and Suleimy Santos for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Christopher Mirabella, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Jourdan Thompson, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
