Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Attempted Rape of Woman Jogging in Park - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, March 17, 2025
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With
Attempted Rape of Woman Jogging in Park
Defendant Fled After Motorcyclist Rode by the Scene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted rape, robbery as a sexually motivated felony and other charges for allegedly grabbing a woman jogger from behind, throwing her to the ground and attempting to rape her in Shirley Chisholm State Park.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is alleged to have followed the victim during a daylight jog and attempt to rape her. Luckily, he was foiled by a stranger. Thanks to painstaking work of state troopers and my office he was identified and will now be brought to justice.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Amadou Kane, 22, of East New York, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis on an indictment in which he is charged with first-degree robbery as a sexually motivated felony, first-degree attempted rape, first-degree attempted sexual abuse, attempted forcible touching, and related charges. Bail was set at $150,000 cash or $350,000 bond. The defendant was ordered to return to court on April 25, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on September 12, 2023, at approximately 4:30 p.m., the victim, a 51-year-old woman, was jogging in Shirley Chisholm State Park when she saw a man ride a bicycle towards her and then past her. Moments later, she was grabbed from behind, thrown to the ground, and punched multiple times. While wrestling with the man on the ground she pulled off his mask and allegedly recognized him as the man on the bicycle.
The defendant allegedly told the woman he had a knife and that he would kill her. He then allegedly told her to pull down her pants and he began to pull down his pants. The defendant fled when he heard a stranger approaching on a motorcycle, taking the victim’s Apple watch from her wrist. The victim called 911 and ran to a nearby park ranger for help. New York State Troopers conducted a canvass for surveillance video and captured the defendant fleeing the park on his bicycle to a nearby shop where he used Apple Pay to buy a bottle of water.
The defendant was identified following a lengthy investigation using financial records, cell site data and social media.
The District Attorney thanked Special Victims Bureau Paralegal Diamond Bertrand for her assistance on the case.
The case was investigated by Investigators Christopher Miller, Juan Orejuela and Dimitrios Papadatos of the New York State Troopers.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Chelsea Jacobi and Assistant District Attorney Christina Oddo, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Ebonie Legrand, Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not a proof of a defendant’s guilt.
