Five Alleged Members of Brooklyn Biker Gang Arraigned on Indictment In Connection with Shooting in East Flatbush - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 6, 2025
Five Alleged Members of Brooklyn Biker Gang Arraigned on Indictment
In Connection with Shooting in East Flatbush
Forty-four Rounds Fired in Dispute with Rival Bikers on Busy Street,
Three Individuals Shot and Wounded; Eight Firearms Recovered
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that five men who are alleged to be members of the Brooklyn-founded biker gang known as Street Knights Motorcycle Club have been arraigned on a 52-count indictment in which they are variously charged with attempted murder, assault, reckless endangerment, criminal possession of a weapon and related charges for a shooting in East Flatbush last spring.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “With this indictment, we allege these defendants turned a busy East Flatbush block into chaos, firing 44 rounds, wounding three people, and sending bystanders running for their lives. We will seek justice for the victims and the community. Brooklyn’s record-low gun violence is no accident; it is the result of outstanding work by the NYPD and our relentless pursuit of accountability when people pull the trigger.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Ricardo Johnson, 51, of Sicklerville, New Jersey, Akeem McDonald, 37, of Huntington Station, Long Island, Saanshuray Bobbitt, 43, of Jamaica, Queens, Raheem Watson, 41, of Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, Melsone Gasby, 47, of Deer Park, Long Island. Four of the defendants were arraigned yesterday before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses on a 52-count indictment in which they are variously charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree assault, first-degree criminal use of a firearm, first-degree attempted assault, first-degree reckless endangerment, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and related charges. Johnson’s arraignment is pending extradition from New Jersey. Bobbitt, McDonald and Watson were ordered held without bail. Gasby’s bail was set at $200,000 cash or $400,000 bond. The defendants were ordered to return to court on December 17, 2025.
Eight firearms, including one assault rifle, were recovered yesterday morning during the execution of search warrants at the residences of McDonald, Bobbitt, Watson, and Gasby.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 19, 2025, the defendants and their motorcycle club were hosting an anniversary party in an event space in the vicinity of Utica Avenue and Foster Avenue, in East Flatbush. At approximately 10:13 p.m., a large group of motorcycles, believed to be primarily members of a rival biker gang, the Hood Ryderz Motorcycle Club, drove past the event space.
Following a brief dispute, it is alleged, defendant Raheem Watson fired 14 rounds towards unknown individuals in the vicinity of Utica Avenue and Avenue D, and then fled the location with other members of the Street Knights M.C. Some of the rounds allegedly fired by Watson damaged an occupied vehicle and caused innocent bystanders in the area to flee.
Immediately following, it is alleged, defendant Ricardo Johnson fired two rounds at a fleeing 35-year-old member of Hood Ryderz M.C. from behind, striking him in the leg. Another defendant, Akeem McDonald, allegedly fired at the 35-year-old victim as he attempted to flee, but instead struck a nearby vehicle, narrowly missing a female passenger seated inside. Defendants Johnson and McDonald were also joined by defendant Saanshuray Bobbitt, who also allegedly fired a gun at the 35-year-old victim.
The 35-year-old victim, unable to stand, attempted to flee and crawl to safety before allegedly exchanging gunfire with defendant Melsone Gasby, the president of Street Knights M.C., who also brandished a pistol.
Finally, it is alleged, a 29-year-old member of Hood Ryderz M.C. tried to flee the area immediately thereafter on his motorcycle when defendant Bobbitt allegedly fired at him at close range, striking him once in the leg. The victim drove several blocks to safety, then called 911. In total 44 rounds were fired and 36 shell casings with four different calibers were recovered.
Defendant McDonald took Johnson to Kings County Hospital where he was treated for a gunshot to the lower right abdomen and released.
The 35-year-old was taken Brookdale Hospital by ambulance and treated for a shattered tibia. He was hospitalized for two weeks and is still unable to walk on his own. The 29-year-old was treated at Kings County Hospital, where he stayed for seven days and suffered permanent nerve damage to his leg.
The District Attorney thanked New York City Police Department Detective Steven Lavin and Lieutenant Martin Costello of the 67th Precinct Detective Squad for their continuous work on this case.
The District Attorney also thanked the NYPD’s 67th Precinct Detective Squad, the Gun Violence Suppression Division, the Brooklyn South Video Team, the Technical Assistance Response Unit, Vehicle Identification Group, Auto Crimes Division, and the NYPD/U.S. Marshals Regional Fugitive Task Force.
The District Attorney thanked Intelligence Analyst Timothy Brown of the KCDA Digital Evidence Lab, under the supervision of Alexandra Aber, Chief Analyst and Assistant District Attorney Jingu Chong, Chief of the Digital Evidence Lab, as well as the Bureau of Litigation Technology, Multimedia Services Unit, and the Detective Investigators Bureau for their assistance in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorneys Robert Andrea and Adriana Morquecho, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Doug Marquez, Deputy Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
