Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and the NYPD to Offer $500 and AirPods for Firearms at East New York Gun Buyback - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 4, 2025
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and the NYPD to Offer
$500 and AirPods for Firearms at East New York Gun Buyback
Will be Held this Saturday, Just in Time for the Holidays
No ID Required, No Questions Asked
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez and New York City Police Commissioner Jessica S. Tisch today announced that a Gun Buyback event will be held on Saturday, December 6, 2025, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at St. Paul’s Community Baptist Church, located at 859 Hendrix Street in East New York, Brooklyn. Those who turn in operable handguns and assault rifles will receive a $500 bank card and Apple AirPods.
Media availability will take place on Saturday, December 6, 2025, at 4 p.m. (members of the press are asked not to arrive before 3:30 p.m.).
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Brooklyn is about to finish this year with record lows in homicides and shootings – a testament to the comprehensive and holistic approach we have taken to reduce gun violence. Gun Buybacks are integral to our successful approach, they allow the community to get involved as every gun off our streets and out of our homes is one fewer weapon that can cause harm. I encourage every New Yorker to take advantage of this opportunity, safely turn in a gun, help make our neighborhoods safer and get some cash and a gift in time for the holiday season.”
Rev. Dr. David K. Brawley, Lead Pastor of St. Paul Community Baptist Church, said, “As a community-rooted Baptist church serving East New York since 1927, we are committed to promoting safety and wellness for our congregation and our neighbors. To that end, we are proud to partner with the Brooklyn DA’s Office on gun safety initiatives that help reduce violence and support a healthier, safer community.”
The District Attorney said that his office will offer money in the form of a $500 bank card for each operable gun or assault rifle turned in (maximum three per person). There will be an offer of a $200 bank card for ghost guns or 3D printed guns (a maximum of two per person). Participants will also receive a $75 bank card for each rifle or shotgun and a $25 bank card for each air gun, imitation pistol or a non-operable firearm. The first 100 people will also receive free AirPods, donated by the Oyate Group, a nonprofit dedicated to alleviating poverty.
No identification is required, and all transactions will be anonymous, no questions asked.
The bank cards will be issued after each firearm is received and screened by officers on site. Guns should be unloaded and packaged in a paper or plastic bag or a box when brought to the event. If transported by car, the guns must be kept in the trunk. Both working and inoperable weapons will be accepted. Active or retired law enforcement officers and licensed gun dealers are not eligible for this event.
St. Paul Community Baptist Church is located a short walk away from the Van Siclen Avenue subway station and a block away from a B83 bus stop. Free vehicle parking will be available.
The District Attorney thanked St. Paul Community Baptist Church, the Oyate Group, Junior’s Restaurant and local elected officials for their assistance in providing donations and in promoting the event.
The DA’s Office hosts periodic Gun Buybacks throughout the year in different Brooklyn neighborhoods. Over 600 firearms have been collected in these events over the past three years.
#
