Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison for Fatally Stabbing Innocent Young Man Walking Home with Brother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 21, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison for
Fatally Stabbing Innocent Young Man Walking Home with Brother
Victim was Stabbed Multiple Times About the Body in Unprovoked Attack
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 19 years in prison for stabbing a 21-year-old man multiple times in the torso and killing him. The victim was walking home with his 24-year-old brother when they were attacked by the defendant and several unapprehended men.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This heartbreaking and senseless act of violence stole the life of Tyler Kobe Nichols, a young man with his entire future ahead of him. His family’s unimaginable loss is something no parent or sibling should ever have to endure. While no sentence can ever make up for their pain, today’s outcome ensures that the defendant is held accountable. My heart is with the Nichols family as they continue to grieve and honor Tyler’s memory.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Javokhir Nematov, 22, of Midwood, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to 19 years in prison by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Rhonda Tomlinson. The defendant pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter on January 16, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, at approximately 7:50 p.m., on December 23, 2020, in the vicinity of Turner Place and Coney Island Avenue in Kensington, Brooklyn, Tyler Kobe Nichols, 21, and his brother, 24, were walking home from a barber shop when they passed the defendant and several others in a parked car. The defendant and others stated words to the effect of “what are you looking at?” and jumped out of the vehicle and attacked both brothers.
The victim was stabbed five times in the torso and suffered injuries to his heart, lung, liver, and kidney. He was taken to a nearby hospital and pronounced dead.
The attackers fled the scene. The defendant was stopped by police on March 5, 2021, driving a Blue Honda Fit for having excessively tinted windows, the same vehicle at the scene of the stabbing. He was charged with the victim’s death the next day following an investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Robert Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Omar Harding, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
