Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years in Prison for Shooting Father and Son Following Traffic Dispute - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, July 17, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 30 Years in Prison for Shooting
Father and Son Following Traffic Dispute
After Victim Asked Him to “Chill Out,” Defendant Returned with Gun And
Opened Fire on Crowded Sidewalk; Apprehended by Bystanders as He Tried to Flee
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 30 years in prison for shooting a man in East Flatbush, then also shooting the victim’s dad who tried to intervene. The broad daylight gun violence took place after the defendant became upset at a woman who was parking her car in a driveway, briefly blocking his vehicle, and the victim asked him to calm down.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a terrifying act of gun violence that inflicted lasting harm on a father and son and endangered everyone nearby. I commend the extraordinary bravery of the victims and the bystanders who intervened to disarm and detain the shooter. Thanks to their courage and the excellent work of my office, this dangerous individual has been held fully accountable and will no longer pose a threat to our community.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as John Miller, 34, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. The defendant, a violent felony offender, was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully to 30 years in prison, following his conviction on two counts of first-degree assault and one count of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial last month.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 12, 2022, at about 6:30 p.m., in the vicinity of East 95th Street in East Flatbush, the first victim, a then 38-year-old man, was sitting in his parked car when he heard a commotion. He stepped out and saw the defendant yelling at a neighbor who was blocking his sedan as she navigated her vehicle into her driveway. He told the defendant to “chill out,” and the defendant responded, “I’ll be back,” before driving off. The victim then went and sat on his stoop.
A short time later, the defendant returned on foot, stood in front of the victim and repeatedly said, “You were the one talking s–t.” The defendant then reached into his pocket, prompting the victim to lunge toward him to grab the gun. But the defendant managed to shoot him twice at close range, striking his back and stomach. The victim’s father, who was 63 at the time and standing by the stoop, ran over to help and was shot once in the upper thigh. A crowd formed and the father managed to pry the gun from the defendant’s hand and give it to a bystander. The defendant attempted to escape but was apprehended by the crowd and held on the ground until police arrived.
The son was taken to Kings County Hospital where he received two life-saving operations, suffered a severe complication, and underwent a high-risk procedure before he was discharged after 17 days. The father was treated in Brookdale Hospital and still suffers from numbness in his right leg and cannot walk without a cane as a result of the injury to his sciatic nerve and the lodged bullet.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Jessica Wishart and Assistant District Attorney Robert Andrea of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Douglas Marquez, Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
