Brooklyn Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of Teenage Girl - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, December 19, 2025
Brooklyn Man Indicted for Sex Trafficking of Teenage Girl
Defendant Allegedly Lured Victim to his Coney Island Apartment,
Forced her to Engage in Sexual Conduct for Money, Raped and Assaulted Her
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with sex trafficking of a child, promoting prostitution and related charges for allegedly trafficking, assaulting and raping a 15-year-old girl.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “As alleged, this defendant horrifically exploited a teenager in a month-long sex trafficking nightmare. Today’s indictment underscores our commitment to protecting girls and at-risk individuals and ensuring those who engage in sex trafficking face serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Sayquan Fleming, a.k.a. “Spectacular,” 26, of Coney Island, Brooklyn. He is charged in a 27-count indictment with sex trafficking of a child, sex trafficking by force, second-degree assault, third-degree rape, second-degree promoting prostitution, endangering the welfare of a child and related counts. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. Bail was set at $300,000 cash or $2 million bond. The defendant was ordered to return to court on February 11, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, around November 3, 2025, a 15-year-old girl from Brooklyn was lured to an apartment in the Marlboro Houses in Coney Island where the defendant lived.
Upon arrival, the defendant allegedly took the minor victim’s phone and her purse containing her high school identification and gave her lingerie to wear and brought her and another female to the “Penn Track” street prostitution track in East New York where the teen was forced to solicit patrons from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. The Penn Track is a stretch of roadway along Pennsylvania Avenue near Wortman and Georgia Avenues, that is frequently where traffickers bring their victims to solicit patrons to engage in sexual conduct for money.
The defendant also allegedly posted nude and semi-nude photographs of the teen on websites for commercial sex. All the money was to go to directly to the defendant. The defendant also allegedly had several other females that he was forcing to engage in sexual conduct for money.
Between November 3, 2025, and November 28, 2025, the defendant allegedly forced the minor victim to engage in sexual conduct for money on the Penn Track and in the stairwell of his apartment building in Coney Island. Additionally, if the buyer wanted the victim to go to them, they would send a car service to pick up the victim from the defendant’s residence to bring the victim to their place, where the victim was forced to engage in sexual conduct with men for money, all of which would allegedly be turned over to the defendant.
During the teen’s time with the defendant, he allegedly regularly assaulted her including one time when he accused her of not giving him all the proceeds she made while she was forced to engage in sexual conduct for him. On another occasion, to prove their loyalty to him, the defendant ordered the other women to assault the minor victim.
During the several weeks the minor victim was with the defendant, she also allegedly had to engage in sexual conduct with him on several occasions.
On November 28, 2025, the minor victim was able to convince the defendant to let her leave. In December, she disclosed what had happened to a school counselor and a report was made to law enforcement.
The investigation was led by Detective Daniel Bergamini, of the New York City Police Department’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Kevin Kavanagh and Lieutenant Christopher Zizza, and the overall supervision of Inspector Gary Marcus.
The District Attorney thanked Digital Forensic Analyst Lexie Giardina, of the Digital Evidence Lab and Human Trafficking Unit Social Worker Raquel Alger, and Assistant District Attorney Audrey Chao, of the Human Trafficking Unit, for their assistance in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Janesse Dawson, of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the Human Trafficking Unit, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims
Bureau.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilty
