Former Brooklyn Teacher Pleads Guilty to Using Child in Sexual Performance and Endangering the Welfare of Children For Coaxing Teens to Send Him Sexual Images - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, March 3, 2025
Former Brooklyn Teacher Pleads Guilty to Using Child in
Sexual Performance and Endangering the Welfare of Children
For Coaxing Teens to Send Him Sexual Images
Will Be Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison for Soliciting Photos and Videos and Engaging in
Graphic Conversations with Six Young Victims Attending Elite Schools
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 38-year-old former math teacher pleaded guilty to use of a child in a sexual performance as a sexually motivated felony and five counts of endangering the welfare of a child in exchange for a seven-year prison sentence and sex offender registration. With this plea, the defendant admitted to enticing or trying to entice teenage students from four Brooklyn independent schools to send him images of nudity and sexual performances. A former teacher at Saint Ann’s School in Brooklyn Heights, he pretended to be a young teen and fellow student when engaging in conversations of a sexual nature over the messaging application Snapchat.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s plea holds this defendant responsible for his disturbing and predatory conduct while sparing young and vulnerable victims from ever having to testify about their traumatic experiences. This kind of exploitation of children, made even more distressing by the fact that the defendant was a trusted school figure, will never be tolerated in Brooklyn and we will continue to expose and root it out. I would like to acknowledge the detectives and prosecutors from my office who investigated this complicated case and ensured that justice is done.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Winston Nguyen, 38, of Harlem, New York. He pleaded guilty today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phillip Tisne to one count of use of a child in a sexual performance as a sexually motivated felony, and five counts of endangering the welfare of a child, in exchange for a promised sentence of seven years in prison, 10 years’ post-release supervision and sex offender registration. Sentencing was scheduled for March 17, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, the defendant presented himself as a young teen when having conversations with children on Snapchat. He was charged with crimes against six children who went to various elite independent schools in Brooklyn.
The charged incidents took place between October 2022 and May 2024, when the victims were between the ages of 13 and 15 years old. The defendant used two Snapchat accounts, hunterkristoff and haircutbongos, to contact the victims, pretending to be a teenage boy. The defendant sent nude images and videos that depicted a teenage boy masturbating to the victims. The defendant also used the accounts to engage in prolonged conversations that described and depicted various sexual acts and got the victims to send images and videos of the victims engaged in sexual performance to him through the Snapchat accounts.
According to the investigation, the two Snapchat accounts mentioned above were connected to IP addresses associated with the defendant, including his Harlem residence, other evidence includes digital communications and images, and accounts from victims.
The case was investigated by KCDA Detective Investigators, with the assistance of Senior Digital Forensic Analyst Sourov Talukder and Digital Forensic Analyst Richard Rojas, of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Daniel Brian Newcombe, of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kevin O’Donnell, Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Olatokunbo Olaniyan, First Deputy Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
