Canarsie Man Indicted for Stabbing Wife to Death - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, January 15, 2025
Canarsie Man Indicted for Stabbing Wife to Death
Allegedly Also Slashed 15-year-old Son with Knife when Teen Tried to Intervene
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment charging him with murder for allegedly stabbing his wife to death during a jealous rage at their home in Canarsie. It is also alleged the defendant attacked the couple’s 15-year-old son with a knife when the teen tried to defend his mother.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This tragic case of domestic violence has left a family shattered—a woman’s life was taken, and her teenage son now bears the deep emotional scars of witnessing such a brutal act. No family should ever have to suffer this kind of pain, and we are fully committed to seeking justice for them while holding those who commit gender-based violence accountable. For anyone facing abuse, please know that you are not alone—help and support are available.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Gordon Lewis, 45, of Canarsie, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Deepa Ambekar on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree murder, endangering the welfare of a child and fourth degree criminal possession of a weapon. He was ordered held without bail and to return on court on March 5, 2025. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on December 22, 2024, at approximately 9:30 p.m., the defendant fatally stabbed his 47-year-old wife, Antoinette Stewart-Gordon, during a jealous rage inside the couple’s home on East 81st Street near Flatlands Avenue in Canarsie.
The defendant and the victim had separated and were dating other people. According to the investigation, the defendant came home and observed a bruise-like mark or “hickey” on the victim’s neck and began to choke her. When the couple’s son tried to intervene, the defendant went into the kitchen and grabbed a knife. He then stabbed the victim multiple times in the neck and body. The teen was slashed on the hand when he tried to help his mother, then went to an upstairs neighbor who called 911.
The victim was taken to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center where she was pronounced dead.
The teen was treated at the hospital and released.
The defendant turned himself in at the local precinct the next day.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Lauren Fitton, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
.
