Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in Prison for Murder of Brooklyn Mother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 1, 2025
Crown Heights Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in
Prison for Murder of Brooklyn Mother
Defendant Fatally Attacked Victim Outside Her Home
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a 47-year-old Crown Heights man has been sentenced to 23 years to life in prison for the fatal stabbing of 27-year-old Jennifer Rodriguez. The victim was killed outside her home in Crown Heights on the day of her young son’s birthday.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a brutal and cowardly attack that stole the life of Jennifer Rodriguez on what should have been a day of joy for her family. Her children will now grow up without a mother, a loss that can never be repaired. While nothing can undo that pain, today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable and ensures he will spend years in prison for this horrific crime. Thanks to the dedication of our prosecutors, working with the NYPD, violent crime in Brooklyn continues to decline, and we remain steadfast in protecting our communities and seeking justice for victims.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Antoine Thompson, 47, of Crown Heights. He was convicted of second-degree murder and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon on July 28, 2025, following a jury trial. The defendant was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Phyllis Chu to 23 years to life in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 31, 2021, at approximately 2:40 p.m., the defendant attacked Jennifer Rodriguez outside her home on Belmont Avenue and Georgia Avenue in Crown Heights, slashing and stabbing her in the throat, arm and torso with a sharp object, causing fatal injuries. Rodriguez died from her wounds shortly thereafter. The victim and the defendant were known to each other from past interactions.
The defendant fled to North Carolina but later returned to Brooklyn. He was arrested on October 18, 2021.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegal Angelika Rostkowska, Chief Analyst of the Digital Evidence Lab Alexandra Aber and Victim Advocate Shannel Pichardo for their assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Evan Hannay, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Ashley Thompson, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
