Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Road Rage Murder in Fatal Hit-and-Run Crash in Bed-Stuy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 18, 2025
Brooklyn Woman Indicted for Road Rage Murder in
Fatal Hit-and-Run Crash in Bed-Stuy
Allegedly Drove Stolen Car, Fled After Dragging Pregnant Woman
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn woman has been arraigned on an indictment in which she is charged with murder and other charges in connection with a fatal hit-and-run crash in Bedford-Stuyvesant that killed a 32-year-old pregnant woman. The defendant was allegedly behind the wheel of a stolen vehicle, after striking the victim’s car from behind, when she allegedly struck the victim and dragged her nearly half a block before fleeing the scene on foot.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a shocking crime that claimed the life of an expectant mother. This defendant is accused of stealing a car, using it to senselessly run down an innocent woman, then leaving her to die in the street. We will now seek justice for the victim and her grieving family and will hold the defendant fully accountable for this heartbreaking loss.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Chaquasia Pigford, 28, of
Bedford- Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglas on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree murder, first-degree manslaughter, first-degree reckless endangerment, leaving the scene of an accident without reporting and other related counts. She was ordered held without bail and to return to court on July 30, 2025. The defendant faces up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 24, 2025, at approximately 11:56 p.m., the defendant was driving a stolen red Chevrolet Trax near Marcus Garvey Boulevard and Van Buren Street when she rear-ended a 2021 Toyota 4Runner driven by the victim, Tiffany Cifuni, 32. After the minor collision, the victim exited her vehicle to speak with the other driver.
As the victim stood in front of the Chevy, the defendant allegedly accelerated, struck the victim, and dragged her northbound on Marcus Garvey Boulevard before her body was dislodged near Lafayette Avenue. The victim suffered severe head and body trauma and was pronounced dead at Kings County Hospital shortly after midnight.
The investigation revealed that the defendant allegedly abandoned the vehicle — which is registered to a man who reported it stolen that night — and fled on foot. Multiple surveillance cameras were analyzed by NYPD detectives and eyewitnesses provided a description leading to the defendant’s arrest.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Tara Kelly of the District Attorney’s Trial Bureau, Grey Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Christopher Velez, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Street Safety Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
