Rapper and Gang Leader Will Be Sentenced to Five Years in Prison for Directing and Participating in Shootings - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 26, 2025
Rapper and Gang Leader Will Be Sentenced to Five Years in
Prison for Directing and Participating in Shootings
Michael Williams, a.k.a. Rapper Sheff G, Accepted a Court Offer
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a successful rapper and gang member known as Sheff G pleaded guilty to attempted murder and conspiracy in exchange for a five-year prison sentence. The defendant is one of 32 alleged members of the 8 Trey Crips and its affiliate, the 9 Ways gang, who were named in a 140-count indictment for allegedly committing shootings, possessing guns, and using stolen cars during shootings against gang rivals.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Notoriety could not shield this defendant from justice. He used his fame to fund and direct violence, terrorizing our streets, and though we sought a much longer sentence, he will now be held to account. Brooklyn will not tolerate gangs that endanger our communities, and we remain committed to dismantling these criminal networks and holding those responsible fully accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Michael Williams, 26, known as Sheff G. He pleaded guilty today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to multiple top counts of second-degree attempted murder and second- and fourth-degree conspiracy in exchange for a Court offer of five years in prison and five years’ post release supervision over the People’s objection (prosecutors offered 20 years in prison). Sentencing was scheduled for August 13, 2025.
Seventeen of the defendants in the indictment have previously pleaded guilty and 14 cases are pending against other defendants, including Tegan Chambers, a rapper known as Sleepy Hollow.
The District Attorney said that the indictment in this case was the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division into shootings and gun possession incidents allegedly committed by members of the 8 Trey Crips and its affiliates, the 9 Ways gang, primarily in the 67
th
and 71
st
Precincts.
It is alleged that many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Furthermore, it is alleged that the defendants boasted about their criminal activities on social media and in text messages, discussing acts of violence and taking credit for shootings and an assault.
The most egregious incident charged in the indictment was a mass shooting on Hawthorne Street in Folk Nation territory on October 21, 2020, at approximately 10:15 p.m. It is alleged that defendant Kamondre Dekattu was captured on surveillance video emerging from the sunroof of a white Infiniti and opening fire while other individuals fired guns from the driver’s side and rear driver’s side windows. An alleged Folk Nation rival, Theodore Senior, 23, was killed and five other alleged Folk Nation members were shot and injured. Dekattu was charged with the murder; his co-conspirators, including Michael Williams, were charged with being part of the conspiracy to commit murder for this incident and others.
In particular, approximately an hour after the mass shooting, Williams sent a text message seeking confirmation that the 8 Trey Crips and 9 Ways had scored against rivals. In separate messages, he sent pictures of the victim and a news article about the incident and shootings that preceded it that day.
Two days after the homicide, Williams hosted a lavish dinner with his fellow 8 Trey Crips and 9 Ways members, including Tegan Chambers, at a Manhattan steakhouse to celebrate the death of Theodore Senior and the injuries of the five other shooting victims.
Furthermore, it is alleged that Williams, who rented a large house in Short Hills, New Jersey during the conspiracy period, used the earnings from his music career to fuel gun violence in Brooklyn, by offering money and giving expensive jewelry to those who committed acts of violence. Williams’ involvement went beyond merely offering money to commit acts of violence. It is alleged that in one shooting incident, Williams coordinated a group of three shooters, drove those shooters to the crime scene, and then acted as the getaway driver.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal Tania Lopez, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, for her assistance with the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sapna Kishnani of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Gillian DiPietro, VCE Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, VCE First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
