Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 33 Years to Life in Prison for Gang-Related Shooting Spree That Left Three People Dead - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 28, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 33 Years to Life in Prison for
Gang-Related Shooting Spree That Left Three People Dead
College Student and Young Woman Killed, Several Others Wounded in
Separate Shootings in East New York and Bedford-Stuyvesant
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Fort Greene man affiliated with a violent street gang and who was linked to three different homicides by the time he was 16 years old has been sentenced to 33 years to life in prison for his role in the fatal shootings of three people in separate incidents weeks apart in 2020. Other co-defendants who are also gang members were previously sentenced for their role in the shootings.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants turned our streets into shooting galleries and showed shocking disregard for human life. Three innocent people were killed, others wounded, and the defendants tried to intimidate whole neighborhoods. That ends here. Long prison terms like this send a simple message to anyone who thinks gang beefs can be settled with a gun: Brooklyn will not tolerate it, and we will hold you accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Iquan Warlick, 21, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully to 33 years to life in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to three counts of second-degree murder, nine counts of second-degree attempted murder, two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and one count of second-degree conspiracy on September 11, 2025. His sentence is comprised of two consecutive terms of 17 years to life and a term of 16 years to life in prison, plus another term of 15 years to life to run concurrently.
A co-defendant, Ziquan Thompson, 22, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn, pleaded guilty to one count of first-degree manslaughter and related charges on May 28, 2025. Justice Tully sentenced him to 20 years in prison on July 18, 2025.
Another co-defendant, George Risher Jr., 21, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn, pleaded guilty to one count of first-degree manslaughter, nine counts of second-degree attempted murder and related charges on August 28, 2025. Justice Tully sentenced him to 26 years in prison on September 15, 2025.
Between 2019 and 2021, according to the evidence, the defendants were members of the Fort Greene-based gang known as FNO (Fort N**** Only or Fear No One) and were aligned with two other street gangs — PPP (Pistol Packing Pitkin) and YAWAH (Young and Wild and Hustling) — forming a coalition known as YPF. In January 2022, 17 members of this alliance were variously charged in two indictments on 118 counts, including 14 shootings that left nine people injured and four dead.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 12, 2020, at approximately 5:50 p.m., Thompson and another unidentified individual were in communication with Warlick via text messages while Warlick continued to communicate the whereabouts of gang member Wayne Lafontant, 23. Thompson and this unidentified individual approached Lafontant in the courtyard of 330 Hudson Walk, firing multiple shots, killing him.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, on October 28, 2020, at approximately 6:05 p.m., Warlick and co-defendant Nakhai Addison, a fellow FNO member who was previously sentenced to up to six years in prison, got off the train in East New York and walked to a bodega located at 296 New Lots Avenue to confront a rival gang member. Inside the store was 18-year-old Sherard McKoy, a college freshman who was not affiliated with a gang. The rival stepped outside, saw Warlick and Addison and went inside to warn McKoy. Warlick and Addison then entered the bodega, where Warlick pulled out a gun and chased McKoy out of the bodega, and fired multiple shots, killing him.
Additionally, according to the evidence, in a separate incident on November 22, 2020, defendants Warlick and Risher, along with at least two other unidentified individuals, ambushed a birthday party in East New York held for a 16-year-old in which enemies of YPF would be in attendance. One of the unidentified individuals shot at a group near the venue, striking a rival gang member in the leg. A short time later, Warlick, Risher and two unidentified individuals went to 15 Albany Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where the party had relocated. Risher and one of the unidentified gunmen went to the third floor and fired multiple shots, striking and injuring five people and killing Daijyonna Long, 20, who was a college student visiting from Virginia. Warlick and another individual remained on the first floor, where they each fired shots towards the group located there, striking and injuring another rival gang member who was in an elevator on the first floor.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detectives Daniel Crerend, William Pugliese and Sergeant Andrew Pagano of the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad, in collaboration with Lieutenant Ryan Gillis of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, as well as the 75th, 79th and 88th Precinct Detective Squads.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegals Harline Aimable and Tania Lopez, and Intelligence Analyst, Sindy Pelaez, of the Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, for their assistance on the case.
This case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Alexander Jean, Felix De Jesus, Martha Duffy and Sean Hughes, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Alfred De Ingeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
