Queens Man Sentenced to 13 Years in Prison for Punching and Pushing 77-Year-Old Stranger onto Tracks at Atlantic Terminal - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, November 5, 2025
Queens Man Sentenced to 13 Years in Prison for Punching and Pushing
77-Year-Old Stranger onto Tracks at Atlantic Terminal
Transit Worker’s Quick Action Prevented Worse Tragedy
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Queens man has been sentenced to 13 years in prison for violently attacking an elderly man on a commuter train platform at Atlantic Terminal and pushing him onto the tracks. The defendant was convicted of attempted murder.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a horrific and unprovoked attack on a 77-year-old man at one of our busiest transit hubs, and the victim could have been killed had it not been for the quick action of a transit worker. We’ve made real progress improving safety in our transit system, and we will not allow anyone to jeopardize that. Today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for this despicable crime and makes clear that violence underground will be met with serious consequences.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Matthew Lloyd, 38, of Queens. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Michael Kitsis to 13 years in prison and five years of post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder on April 10, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on August 18, 2023, at approximately 4:20 p.m., the victim, a 77-year-old man, was standing on the Long Island Rail Road platform for Track 5 at the Atlantic Terminal when the defendant approached and, without provocation, punched him multiple times in the face. The defendant then pushed the victim off the platform, causing him to fall approximately five feet onto the tracks and strike his head near the electrified third rail. The defendant fled the scene on foot.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, the incident was captured on surveillance video, which was played for the Court during trial. The victim was rescued from the tracks by a Long Island Rail Road mechanical foreman, who heard the victim’s screams and immediately called to stop train traffic on Track 5. Trains are sometimes diverted between tracks and his actions may have prevented the victim from being struck.
The victim suffered significant and ongoing pain for several months after the attack and continues to struggle with mobility. He also suffers from lasting vision and memory impairments caused by the head injury he sustained when he was pushed onto the tracks.
The District Attorney thanked Orange Zone Paralegal Jamal Marshall and Digital Forensic Analyst Christina Stewart of the Digital Evidence Lab for their assistance on the case.
This case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Barg and Assistant District Attorney Jane Dowling, of the District Attorney’s Orange Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michael Trabulsi and Assistant District Attorney Iris Das, Deputy Bureau Chiefs, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Danielle Eaddy, Bureau Chief.
#
