Rapper and Gang Leader Sentenced to Five Years in Prison For Directing and Participating in Gang Shootings - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 1, 2025
Rapper and Gang Leader Sentenced to Five Years in Prison
For Directing and Participating in Gang Shootings
Michael Williams, a.k.a. Rapper Sheff G, Pleaded Guilty to Attempted Murder
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a rapper and gang member known as Sheff G was sentenced to five years in state prison following his guilty plea to attempted murder and conspiracy. The defendant was a leading member among 32 purported members of the 8 Trey Crips and its affiliate, the 9 Ways gang, who were named in a 140-count indictment for allegedly committing shootings, possessing guns, and using stolen cars while shooting at gang rivals.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant had talent and opportunity, but chose to use them to fuel violence instead of building a better future. Together with the NYPD, we have driven gun violence in Brooklyn to record lows by focusing on dangerous individuals, like Mr. Williams and his cohorts. I can only hope that this measure of accountability will lead him to taking a different path and using his influence in a positive manner.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Michael Williams, 27, known as Sheff G. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to five years in prison and five years of post-release supervision in accordance with a Court plea offer under which he pleaded guilty in March to two top counts of second-degree attempted murder and one count of second-degree conspiracy.
Justice Chun last week also sentenced an associate, Tegan Chambers, a rapper known as Sleepy Hallow, to one year in jail following his guilty plea to fourth-degree conspiracy.
Twenty-three of the other defendants have previously pleaded guilty and seven cases are pending against the remaining defendants.
The District Attorney said that the indictment in this case was the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division into shootings and gun possession incidents allegedly committed by members of the 8 Trey Crips and its affiliates, the 9 Ways gang, primarily in the 67
th
and 71
st
Precincts.
Many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Furthermore, it is alleged that the defendants boasted about their criminal activities on social media and in text messages, discussing acts of violence and taking credit for shootings and an assault.
The most egregious incident charged in the indictment was a mass shooting on Hawthorne Street on October 21, 2020, at approximately 10:15 p.m. It is alleged that defendant Kamondre Dekattu was captured on surveillance video emerging from the sunroof of a white Infiniti and opening fire while other individuals fired guns from the driver’s side and rear driver’s side windows. An alleged Folk Nation rival, Theodore Senior, 23, was killed and five other alleged Folk Nation members were shot and injured. Dekattu was charged with the murder; his co-conspirators, including Michael Williams, were charged with being part of the conspiracy to commit murder for this incident and others.
In particular, approximately an hour after the mass shooting, Williams sent a text message seeking confirmation that the 8 Trey Crips and 9 Ways had scored against rivals. In separate messages, he sent pictures of the victim and a news article about the incident and other shootings that preceded the homicide that day.
Two days after the homicide, Williams hosted a lavish dinner with his fellow 8 Trey Crips and 9 Ways members, including Tegan Chambers, at a Manhattan steakhouse to celebrate the death of Theodore Senior and the injuries sustained to the five other shooting victims.
Furthermore, Williams, who rented a large house in Short Hills, New Jersey during the conspiracy period, used the earnings from his music career to fuel gun violence in Brooklyn, by offering money and giving expensive jewelry to those who committed acts of violence. Williams’ involvement went beyond merely offering money to commit acts of violence. In one shooting incident, Williams coordinated a group of three shooters, drove those shooters to the crime scene, and then acted as the getaway driver.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal Tania Lopez of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau for her assistance with the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sapna Kishnani of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Gillian DiPietro, VCE Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, VCE First Deputy Bureau Chief, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, VCE Bureau Chief.
#
