Westchester Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Allegedly Pushing Stranger onto Subway Tracks - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 25, 2025
Westchester Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for
Allegedly Pushing Stranger onto Subway Tracks
Defendant Approached Victim from Behind and Shoved Him
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Westchester man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault, and other charges for allegedly shoving a stranger onto the subway tracks at the Atlantic Avenue-Barclays station in Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a terrifying attack that is the nightmare of every New Yorker who uses the subway. Luckily, the victim was able to lift himself from the tracks moments before a subway train entered the station. We will now seek to hold this defendant accountable for his alleged, horrifying actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Andrew Pashinin, 19, of Harrison, New York. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Herbert Moses on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, first-degree attempted assault, first- and second-degree reckless endangerment, third-degree assault, third-degree menacing, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon. The defendant was ordered held without bail pending a psychiatric examination and to return to court on April 2, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on December 7, 2024, at approximately 11:35 a.m., on the south bound D train platform of the Atlantic Avenue-Barclays station the defendant allegedly pulled out a knife and walked behind a 33-year-old man standing on the platform. He then put the knife away, pulled out a camera and began recording the man.
The defendant and the man got into a verbal dispute and the man walked away from the defendant, who then followed the man and allegedly shoved him from behind onto the subway tracks. The victim was able to get himself off the tracks and onto the platform seconds before a train entered the station. He sustained pain and bruising.
The defendant fled the scene and was arrested on January 21, 2025, after police identified him from a wanted flyer.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ashley Infante, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
