Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison for Stabbing Two Men in Homeless Shelter and Another in Subway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 3, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison for Stabbing
Two Men in Homeless Shelter and Another in Subway
The Victims Were Asleep When the Defendant Attacked Them,
Suffered Serious and Life-Threatening Injuries
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 12 years in prison following his guilty plea to attempted murder in connection to a series of unprovoked stabbings that left three innocent men seriously injured.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The cruelty and depravity of these attacks cannot be overstated. Three men were stabbed as they slept, utterly defenseless, and it is truly a miracle that they all survived. This kind of random brutality shocks the conscience, and with today’s sentence, this violent defendant is being held accountable and removed from our streets. My office remains steadfast in our commitment to protect all Brooklyn residents from senseless violence, and I commend the NYPD and our prosecutors for their outstanding work in this case.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Abraham Kentish, 28, formerly of the SUS Shelter in East New York, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Adam Perlmutter to 12 years in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty on July 29, 2025, to three counts of second-degree attempted murder.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on November 12, 2023, at approximately 1:30 a.m., at the SUS Shelter, a homeless shelter located at 1000 Blake Avenue in East New York, Brooklyn, the defendant went into the room of a 70-year-old client who was sleeping and stabbed him 15 times in the torso and about the body. He then stabbed a 38-year-old man who was sleeping in the same room twice in the face and once in the elbow. The defendant then left the shelter and a security guard, who was told about the stabbings, called 911.
A short time later, between 1:55 a.m. and 2:55 a.m., the defendant entered the New Lots Avenue subway station, boarded a 4 line subway car, and walked up to a 32-year-old man who was sleeping and stabbed him once in the neck.
The defendant was arrested later that morning by two New York City Police Officers who saw that he matched the description of an individual being sought for the attacks.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ainissa Proctor, of the District Attorney’s Red Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Karla Watson, Bureau Chief.
#
