Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison For Shooting Man Twice in Chest at Point Blank Range - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, May 13, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison
For Shooting Man Twice in Chest at Point Blank Range
Defendant Shot Unarmed Victim in Broad Daylight on Labor Day Weekend
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man was sentenced to 12 years in prison for a 2022 shooting in broad daylight in Sunset Park that left a man seriously injured.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant shot an unarmed 20-year-old man in the chest, leaving him with serious long-term injuries. His life will never be the same.
We have no tolerance for violence and this sentence sends a clear message that gun violence in Brooklyn will be met with serious consequences.
”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as John Carter, 56, of Park Slope, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Adam Perlmutter to 12 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first- and second-degree assault, first- and second-degree criminal use of a firearm, and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 14, 2024, following a jury trial.
His co-defendants were identified as Lamount Barrott, 37, Walter Lindsay, 49, and William Parez, 42. Barrott pleaded guilty to third-degree robbery and second-degree attempted assault and was sentenced to 3.5 to seven years in prison. Lindsay pleaded guilty to third-degree robbery and was sentenced to one to three years in prison. Parez pleaded guilty to fifth-degree criminal possession of stolen property and was sentenced to six months in jail.
The District Attorney said that, according to trial testimony, on September 4, 2022, at approximately 3 p.m., on Third Avenue, between 19
th
and 20
th
Street, the defendant and three accomplices were searching for an individual with whom they had a dispute when they came across his car. But that individual was not in the car. The person seated in the car, who was watching YouTube videos on his cell phone, was another individual, a 20-year-old man.
The three accomplices surrounded the car and one of them punched the victim. Carter then approached and joined the assault. He pistol-whipped the victim, they grabbed his phone, and ordered him out of the car. The victim exited the car to retrieve his phone and the defendant shot him twice in the chest.
The victim was taken to Methodist Hospital, where he remained for a week. His gallbladder had to be removed and he sustained injuries to other vital organs, according to trial testimony. He has bullet fragments and shrapnel lodged in his body and is unable to work.
The defendant and his accomplices were arrested following an investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Supervising Paralegal Andy Mata and Paralegal Elizabeth Torres, as well as Discovery Support Director Lisa Santapaul for their assistance on this case.
The case was prosecuted by
Assistant District Attorney Michael Boykin, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Gabrielle Tielman-Fenelus, also of the Green Zone, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Bureau Chief.
#
