Long Island Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him With Stealing $2 Million House in Fort Greene - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 18, 2025
Long Island Man Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him
With Stealing $2 Million House in Fort Greene
Alleged Theft Marks the Second Time Property was Targeted, Title Stolen
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Nassau County man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with filing a deed purporting to be the rightful owner of a three-family house, valued at over $2 million, in Fort Greene, Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Real estate fraud is a serious threat to homeowners, and in Brooklyn, we will not tolerate scammers who try to steal property through deception. This alleged scheme was uncovered thanks to the rightful owner’s vigilance, and we will now seek to hold the defendant accountable. Our Real Estate Fraud Unit is dedicated to protecting property owners, and we will continue to aggressively investigate and prosecute those who undermine the security of homeowners and the integrity of property ownership.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Danny Noble, 55, of Baldwin, New York.
He was arraigned today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with first-degree grand larceny, first-degree falsifying business records and first-degree offering a false instrument for filing. He was ordered held on $300,000 cash bail or $2.5 million bond, and to return to court on April 23, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, between September 1, 2023 and September 15, 2023, the defendant falsely transferred the title to 71 Carlton Avenue, a three-story house in Fort Greene valued at approximately $2,170,000.
The defendant allegedly filed a deed, recorded on September 15, 2023, in which he purported to be the rightful owner of 71 Carlton Avenue. He then allegedly initiated a quiet title action in Brooklyn Supreme Court, seeking a judicial order declaring him the rightful owner of the property. The actual owner, 71 Carlton LLC, learned of the fraudulent deed and contacted the Brooklyn DA’s Action Center in December 2024.
The property’s title was also illegally transferred in 2010.
As part of the 2023 scheme, it is alleged, the defendant filed false documents with the New York City Department of Finance, Office of the City Register, which maintains land records and other real property filings in New York City, including records relating to ownership and encumbrances, such as liens and mortgages.
The District Attorney offered the following tips to homeowners to protect themselves:
Make sure the NYC Dept. of Finance has the correct address to receive property notices.
Designate a trusted family member or friend to receive notices if you are unable.
Register with the NYC Department of Finance to receive automatic notifications regarding any changes to your deed or property records.
Never sign any contract you do not understand.
For more information visit
http://brooklynda.org/deedfraud/
The District Attorney thanked KCDA Detective Investigators and Investigations Division
Intelligence Analyst Yacelys Corona for their assistance on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Richard Farrell, Chief of the District Attorney’s Real Estate Fraud Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Gregory Pavlides, Chief of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau and Assistant District Attorney Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
