Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison For Shooting and Wounding Man in Bedford-Stuyvesant - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, January 3, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison
For Shooting and Wounding Man in Bedford-Stuyvesant
Defendant and Victim Had a Dispute Outside Bar on Tompkins Avenue
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bedford-Stuyvesant man has been sentenced to 12 years in prison following his conviction for second-degree attempted murder for opening fire outside a neighborhood bar and striking a man in the leg. The defendant was convicted last month following a jury trial.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “
Today’s sentence sends a clear message that senseless acts of gun violence have no place in Brooklyn. The defendant’s decision to open fire over a petty argument not only caused serious harm to the victim but endangered innocent lives in our community. This brazen disregard for safety is unacceptable. As Brooklyn reached the lowest number of shootings ever recorded last year, we remain steadfast in our commitment to holding individuals who perpetrate gun violence accountable to ensure our borough remains a safer place for all.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Hajj Lovick, 48, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jane Tully
to 12 years in prison and five years’ post-release supervision. The defendant was convicted of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree attempted assault, second-degree assault, first-degree reckless endangerment, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon and first- and second-degree criminal use of a firearm on December 11, 2024, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on June 15, 2023, at approximately 1:40 a.m., the defendant stepped out of Lover’s Rock, a bar located at 419 Tompkins Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, with the victim, a 51-year-old man, and the two men engaged in a verbal dispute. The defendant was armed with a knife and feinted use of that knife against the victim, as if he was going to stab him. The victim was unarmed.
Furthermore, according to the evidence, after the dispute cooled down the defendant left the vicinity of Lover’s Rock and entered a nearby building. Minutes later, according to the evidence, the defendant returned with a gun and fired twice toward the victim and several bystanders. The victim was struck once in his right shin. No one else was struck. Video surveillance captured the moments before the shooting, the shooting, and the aftermath of the shooting.
The victim was taken to Kings County Hospital and was treated and released.
The defendant fled the scene and was arrested on June 19, 2023, following an investigation. A knife was recovered from the defendant at the time of his arrest.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Alejandro Vera and Senior Assistant District Attorney Natalie Riether, of the District Attorney’s Blue Zone Trial Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kin Ng, Chief of the Blue Zone.
#
