Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison For Stabbing Death of His Pregnant Wife - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, December 2, 2025
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 22 Years to Life in Prison
For Stabbing Death of His Pregnant Wife
Victim was Stabbed Multiple Times in Neck with Screwdriver;
Sentence to Run Consecutively to Term Defendant is Serving for Upstate Murder
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 22 years to life in prison for the stabbing death of his wife in their Williamsburg apartment. The sentence will run consecutively to a term of 22 years to life in prison that the defendant is serving for the murder of his former wife in Schenectady, New York.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant shockingly killed two women, both mothers, within weeks of each other. He callously stabbed his pregnant wife, leaving her to die, then headed upstate and killed his former wife. He will now serve 44 years to life for these despicable crimes. There is no place for domestic violence and intimate partner abuse in Brooklyn and we will continue to prosecute such cases vigorously.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Timothy Taylor, 38, of Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin to 22 years to life in prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder on October 16, 2025. The term was ordered to run consecutively to an additional term of 22 years to life in prison that the defendant was sentenced to earlier this year following his July 1, 2025 guilty plea to second-degree murder for the death of Tishawn Folkes-Taylor, 44, in her Schenectady home on May 28, 2023.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on May 13, 2023, at about 8 a.m., at 356 Bedford Avenue, Theresa Gregg, 37, was found unresponsive on the floor in the doorway of her bedroom by her 14-year-old twin daughters. The victim had blood around her face and neck and a screwdriver was found next to her body. Her daughters called 911 and emergency medical technicians responded, and the victim was pronounced dead at the scene.
Gregg, who was employed as a police officer with the city’s Department of Homeless Services, was approximately three months pregnant.
The defendant was apprehended in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on June 2, 2023.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin-Fodeman, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
