Man Who Shot and Killed One Man, Injured Another in Bushwick, And Then Shot at a Police Officer in Bedford-Stuyvesant Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 09, 2025
Man Who Shot and Killed One Man, Injured Another in Bushwick, And Then Shot at a Police Officer in Bedford-Stuyvesant Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison
Defendant Fled from Homicide and When Confronted by Police Officers, Opened Fire
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 40 years to life in prison for fatally shooting one man, shooting and injuring another man and then opening fire at a police officer a short time later – striking and injuring the officer.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant brazenly opened fire twice in one night, killing one man and seriously wounding two others, including a police officer. Thankfully, they both recovered, and the defendant was apprehended immediately. Today’s sentence holds him accountable for his actions.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Boyce Hayward, 30, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 40 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder, first-degree assault, two counts of first-degree criminal use of a firearm, second-degree attempted murder, and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on February 21, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 12, 2021, at approximately 11:11 p.m., at the corner of Madison Street and Broadway, in the confines of the 83rd Precinct, the defendant approached a BMW SUV stopped at a light and fired multiple shots into the vehicle’s passenger side window, striking and killing Randall Roberts, 28, and seriously injuring the driver of the vehicle. The defendant then walked away from the scene. The shooting was witnessed by an off-duty police officer who provided a detailed description of the defendant.
Minutes later, at approximately 11:15 p.m., the defendant was observed walking along Howard Avenue, near Saratoga Park, between Halsey Street and Macon Street in the 83rd Precinct, about four blocks from where he had just shot and killed Randall Roberts.
Police Officers Brian McGurran, Matthew Perry and Sergeant Kevin Beasley, of the 81st Precinct, saw the defendant after they received information regarding the shooting at Madison Street and Broadway.
Police Officer McGurran walked towards the defendant, who immediately turned around and fired at Officer McGurran multiple times. The police officers returned fire, including Officer McGurran, who was struck multiple times. The defendant was also struck.
The evidence showed that the defendant fired at Officer McGurran at least five times, with two of those shots striking him – one in his vest and one in his buttocks and through his thigh. The defendant was shot in the buttocks by police.
The District Attorney thanked Executive Paralegal Franklyn Arias, Homicide Paralegal John Homnick, Intelligence Analyst Selena Collado, of the Digital Evidence Lab, NYPD Detective Vincent DeMarino, of the 83rd Precinct, NYPD Detective James McDermott of the Force Investigation Division, and Retired Detective Alexander Grandstaff, of Brooklyn North Homicide for there work on this case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Robert P. Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Executive Assistant District Attorney Joseph P. Alexis, Chief of the Trial Division.
#
