Brooklyn Teenager Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison For Fatal Shooting of Innocent 15-Year-Old Boy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 21, 2025
Brooklyn Teenager Sentenced to 18 Years to Life in Prison
For Fatal Shooting of Innocent 15-Year-Old Boy
Defendant Convicted of Second-Degree Murder Following Jury Trial
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Fort Greene teenager has been sentenced to 18 years to life in prison for fatally shooting a 15-year-old boy in a Downtown Brooklyn park in broad daylight.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s sentence holds this defendant accountable for taking the life of 15-year-old Unique Smith, an innocent boy who was simply sitting in a park near his school when he was senselessly murdered. Unique’s family, friends, and community will carry this loss forever, and my heart is with them. Working with the NYPD, we’ve brought gun violence in Brooklyn down to record lows, but one shooting is still one too many, and we will not rest until no family has to grieve a loved one lost to gunfire.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Wesley Walker, 19, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Adam Perlmutter to 18 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on August 20, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on September 7, 2022, the victim, Unique Smith, was sitting on a bench in McLaughlin Park, in the vicinity of Tillary Street and Jay Street, at around 1:40 p.m. Smith was a student at nearby Brooklyn Laboratory Charter School.
The defendant, who was wearing a mask and was a member of the FNO Woo street gang, along with another masked individual, approached the victim and asked if he was affiliated with a gang. Following a brief argument the defendant shot the victim once in the stomach.
The victim was rushed to Methodist Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
According to the trial testimony, earlier that day the defendant had cut class, went to school at dismissal and recruited several students, including one to act as a lookout, to go to the park, where he displayed a gun and expressed his intent to use it.
The defendant fled the scene and was arrested in Binghamton, New York, on February 1, 2023.
The District Attorney thanked Homicide Paralegal Meghan Brancato and Intelligence Analyst Zoe Feygin, of the Digital Evidence Lab for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Perry, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Lauren Fitton, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Bureau Chief.
#
