Brooklyn Driver Who Killed Mother and Two Daughters While Allegedly Speeding Through a Red Light Indicted for Manslaughter - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 16, 2025
Brooklyn Driver Who Killed Mother and Two Daughters While Allegedly Speeding Through a Red Light Indicted for Manslaughter
Allegedly Blew Steady Red Light While Going Nearly Triple the Speed Limit
And Plowed Through Pedestrians in the Crosswalk
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn woman has been arraigned on an indictment charging her with reckless manslaughter and other charges for allegedly speeding through a steady red light before crashing into an Uber that was waiting for a family to finish crossing the street, plowing through the pedestrians as her car rolled over. A 34-year-old mother and her daughters, 5 and 8, died from the impact, and her 4-year-son suffered serious injuries.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This horrific fatal crash was one of the worst I’ve seen in over 25 years as a prosecutor. It wasn’t an accident. This defendant’s unconscionably dangerous driving wiped out a family. The consequences of her flouting traffic laws and commonsense were disastrous, and we will now seek to hold her fully accountable for this criminally reckless behavior.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Miriam Yarimi, 32, of Midwood, Brooklyn. She was arraigned today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment charging her with multiple counts of second-degree manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, second-degree assault, and other related counts. She was ordered held without bail and to return to court on June 11, 2025. The defendant is facing a maximum sentence of five to 15 years in prison if convicted of the top count.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on March 29, 2025, at approximately 1:00 p.m., the defendant was driving a 2023 Audi, turning onto Ocean Parkway. Video surveillance shows her car drive through a red light a block before the crash, narrowly avoiding other cars and continue north on Ocean Parkway.
At the next intersection, with Quentin Road, the mother, Natasha Saada, 34, was crossing Ocean Parkway from west to east, holding hands with her three children, Diana, 8, Deborah, 5, and Philip, 4. The evidence shows that a Toyota Camry was in the process of turning right from Quentin Road onto Ocean Parkway and was waiting for the pedestrians to finish crossing.
When the family was a step or two from the sidewalk, the Audi driven by the defendant sped through the intersection against the light, smashed into the back of the turning Toyota and plowed through the victims with her car continuing to roll over, stopping about 130 feet away. According to evidence obtained from the black box, the Audi was traveling at about 68 mph (in a 25-mph zone), was at full throttle (suggesting the gas pedal was floored) and zero brake was applied.
The mother and two daughters were killed at the scene. Her son suffered skull fractures, brain bleeding and had a kidney removed. The Toyota had five occupants – the Uber driver, a mother and her three kids – who sustained minor injuries. The Audi ended up upside down and had to be cut to get the defendant out. She suffered minor physical injuries.
The District Attorney thanked detectives from the NYPD’s Collision Investigation Squad for their assistance in the investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Michael Boykin, Deputy Bureau Chief of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, and Assistant District Attorney Aaron Gauthier, of the Green Zone, with assistance from Jennifer Nocella, Chief of the Street Safety Bureau, Paralegals Devi Kempadoo and Lauryn Mordaunt, of the Street safety Bureau, and Green Zone Supervising Paralegal Aneudy Mata, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank DeGaetano, Chief of the Green Zone.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
