New Jersey Brothers Indicted for Alleged Financial Scam Targeting Seniors - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 25, 2025
New Jersey Brothers Indicted for Alleged Financial Scam Targeting Seniors
Allegedly Claimed Victims’ Bank Accounts Were Compromised and Directed Them to Send
Funds to the “Government” for Safekeeping or to Other Bank Accounts They Controlled
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two New Jersey men, acting in concert with others, have been indicted for allegedly scamming four women ranging in age from 76 to 90 years old out of almost $400,000 by posing as government agents or bank representatives and claiming the victims’ bank accounts were compromised and they needed to withdraw their funds immediately – and not tell anyone what they were doing.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants allegedly targeted some of the most vulnerable members of our communities to steal the nest eggs they had carefully built up over many years. Their alleged behavior is despicable, and we will now seek to bring them to justice. I am committed to protecting our senior citizens from scams such as this one.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Abhishek Barvalia, 31, and Tushar Barvalia, 32, of Rutherford, New Jersey. They were arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which they are charged with second-degree grand larceny, first-degree scheme to defraud and fourth-degree conspiracy. They were released without bail and ordered to return to court on October 22, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between June 2023 and January 2024, the defendants allegedly participated in a scheme that targeted at least four victims who were 76, 78, 83, and 90 years old. The victims lived in Brooklyn, Staten Island, Queens, and Connecticut. In some cases, it is alleged, the victims were instructed to keep their withdrawals confidential to protect the secrecy of the “government investigation.”
It is alleged that on December 11, 2023, the 76-year-old victim received a pop-up notification on her computer screen which urged her to call the number displayed on the screen, which she did, and spoke to a person purporting to be an FBI agent. The “agent” told the victim hackers were using her information for illegal activities including selling drugs and guns and money laundering. The victim was told she needed to secure her savings by transferring money out of her bank accounts and into accounts “controlled by the U.S. government.” That same day she withdrew a total of $171,680 in three cashier’s checks and mailed them to the defendants.
Furthermore, it is alleged, on July 5, 2023, the 78-year-old victim received a pop-up notification on her computer screen claiming her computer was infected with malware and urging her to call “Microsoft” at the number displayed on her screen, which she did and was then transferred to someone purporting to be with the Federal Trade Commission who told her hackers were trying to steal money from her bank accounts and she should send funds to the federal government for safekeeping. Over the next two days, the victim sent two cashier’s checks totaling $70,000 to the defendants.
It is alleged that on December 4, 2023, the 90-year-old victim received a pop-up notification on her computer warning her of a purported “Apple Security Risk” and then began speaking with a purported government agent who allegedly said her bank accounts were being hacked and used to store money related to illicit activity including child pornography. Over the next two weeks the victim was persuaded to send a total of approximately $136,224 to accounts allegedly controlled by the defendants.
Finally, it is alleged that on June 30, 2023, the 83-year-old victim received a phone call from someone purporting to be a bank representative who convinced the victim to disclose information about her account. Later that day, $15,000 was wired out of the victim’s account into an account allegedly controlled by the defendants. That same day, an additional request for $21,000 was made but denied by the bank.
The District Attorney said that financial schemes are often conducted through a person contacting the victims under the guise of protecting their assets, with the callers representing themselves as a law enforcement officer, a representative of a financial institution, or security from a technology firm such as Microsoft or Apple. The caller typically requests some transfer of funds or information about accounts. The perpetrators direct the victims to mail cashier’s checks or send funds via a wire transfer.
The District Attorney offered the following information to guard against being victimized by a financial scheme:
Beware of any warnings that pop up on your computer screen which claim that your bank account is being hacked and that you need to call a certain phone number.
DO NOT call that number.
DO NOT click on anything received in an unsolicited email or text message.
DO NOT give your bank account information or PIN number to anyone who calls you and claims to be a federal agent or banker. End the call
immediately.
DO go to your bank branch and tell a manager what happened, or if that is not possible, call your local branch and speak to a manager about what happened.
Beware of any caller who requests absolute confidentiality and requests that you not tell family members or contact the police.
The District Attorney thanked KCDA Detective Investigators for their work on this case, as well as Supervising Financial Investigator Susan Ryan, Intelligence Analyst Veranika Basak and Paralegal Jezebel Negrete-Ugaz.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Andrew Kohler, Special Counsel to the District Attorney’s Investigations Division, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Frank Ungerer, also of the Investigations Division, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
