Five Individuals Indicted for Conspiracy and Sex Trafficking - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 11, 2025
Five Individuals Indicted for Conspiracy and Sex Trafficking
Defendants Variously Charged in Connection with Trafficking of
19-Year-Old and 15-Year-Old Girls in Brooklyn, North Carolina, and Albany
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that three men and two women are variously charged in a 14-count indictment with conspiracy, sex trafficking, sex trafficking of a child, promoting prostitution and related charges.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants allegedly preyed on vulnerable young women using violence, threats, and psychological coercion to traffic them across multiple states for profit. We are fully committed to protecting at-risk youth from this kind of exploitation and will use every legal tool available to hold traffickers accountable and deliver justice for the survivors.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Layquan Highsmith, 30, of Brooklyn; Ronasia Robinson, 31, of Troy, New York; Tyshawn Crawford, 29, of Brooklyn; Richard Baker, 45, of Brooklyn; and Eyecess Chapman, 24, of Brooklyn. They were variously arraigned today and over the past few weeks in Brooklyn Supreme Court on a 14-count indictment in which they are variously charged with fourth- and fifth-degree conspiracy, sex trafficking, sex trafficking of a child, second-, third- and fourth-degree promoting prostitution, endangering the welfare of a child, second-degree unlawful imprisonment, and permitting prostitution. They were ordered to return to court on May 21, 2025.
The District Attorney said that, on October 5, 2024, one of the victims, a 19-year-old female, went to a concert in Times Square and was allegedly approached by Layquan Highsmith and several women. The defendant allegedly displayed a firearm and told the victim to get into a car with the group. She was driven to an apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
Initially, the victim was allegedly forced to engage in sexual acts for money by Highsmith, Ronasia Robinson, Richard Baker, and Eyecess Chapman. All the money that was earned would allegedly go to Baker and Chapman and a cut would go to Highsmith.
Several days later, it is alleged, the victim was driven to North Carolina by Robinson and Highsmith and forced to engage in prostitution in several different cities. She was then brought back to New York and forced to engage in prostitution in Brooklyn and in the Albany/Troy region. In mid-October, it is alleged, a 15-year-old that had been reported missing joined the group and along with the first victim was allegedly sex trafficked by Highsmith, Robinson and Crawford.
It is alleged that Highsmith and Crawford were violent with the 19-year-old and beat her when she wanted to leave. One another occasion, it is alleged, Crawford took the victim’s phone and broke it when she was trying to contact her family.
On October 31, 2024, it is alleged, Robinson, Crawford and Highsmith brought the two victims to North Carolina to stay at hotels in three cities, where they recruited several other young women who were allegedly engaging in prostitution for Highsmith and Crawford.
Sexually explicit photos of the victims were used for online advertisements allegedly posted by the defendants.
On November 6, 2024, at the Red Roof Inn in Wilmington, N.C., the 19-year-old used a hotel phone to call 911 and report being suicidal. Police responded and she was brought to a hospital. She was released from the hospital on November 10, 2024, and given a Greyhound bus ticket to go back to her hometown in upstate New York. While at the Port Authority bus terminal looking for her gate, she was approached by Port Authority police and disclosed being trafficked in Brooklyn, Albany/Troy and North Carolina.
On January 27, 2025, the grand jury returned an indictment and arrest warrants were issued for all the defendants.
On February 6, 2025, prostitution advertisements were discovered with images of the missing 15-year-old victim as well as Robinson that were posted in Troy, NY. Investigators from the New York State Police obtained a search warrant and recovered the missing minor and placed Robinson under arrest.
On February 21, 2025, pursuant to the arrest warrant, Tyshawn Crawford was apprehended in Florida by the United States Marshal Service Fugitive Task Force and was extradited to New York City.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detective James Rufle and Detective Kevin Deleon of the joint FBI-NYPD Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Task Force and citywide Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Lieutenant Joseph Picarello, Lieutenant Amy Capogna, Sergeant Kevin Kavanaugh, and Captain Maripily Clase, commanding officer of the Human Trafficking Squad, and the overall supervision of Chief Carlos Ortiz.
The District Attorney thanked Police Officer Tim Dewyngaert of the Wilmington, N.C., Police Department, Detective Joseph Wechsler of the Henrico, Virginia Police Division, Police Officer Sean Kehoe, Counselor Jacquelyn Wells and Sergeant Charles DePrima, of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Police Department Youth Services Unit, New York State Police Investigator Sean Tashjian and his team, for their assistance on the case.
Additionally, the District Attorney thanked KCDA Deputy Chief Janette Lukowsky of the District Attorney’s Law Enforcement Assistance Unit, Human Trafficking Unit Deputy Chief Mary E. Monahan, Paralegal Specialist Aurora Martinez, Paralegal Aaliyah Antrobus, Social Worker Raquel Alger and Digital Evidence Lab Digital Forensic Analyst Taylor Mumley for their work on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Audrey Chao, of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, and Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the Human Trafficking Unit, under the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
