Brooklyn Man Convicted of Manslaughter as a Hate Crime for Stabbing Death of O’Shae Sibley in Anti-Gay Attack at Midwood Gas Station - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, June 8, 2026
Brooklyn Man Convicted of Manslaughter as a Hate Crime for Stabbing
Death of O’Shae Sibley in Anti-Gay Attack at Midwood Gas Station
Defendant Hurled Homophobic Slurs at Victim and His Friends,
Who were Dancing and Listening to Music following a Beach Outing
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been convicted of manslaughter as a hate crime and related charges for taunting, stabbing and killing O’Shae Sibley, 28, at a Midwood gas station after hurling homophobic and anti-Black slurs.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “O’Shae Sibley moved to New York to pursue his dream of being a dancer and choreographer, and his life was cut short when he was killed by this defendant, who couldn’t stand the sight of O’Shae and his friends just being themselves and living their lives openly as black gay men. By the jury’s verdict, this defendant will now be held accountable, and it is my hope that as the LGBTQ+ community celebrates the beginning of Pride Month, this verdict will bring O’Shae’s family, his friends, and the larger community some measure of solace. Hate has no place in Brooklyn, and my office will do everything in its power to keep our vulnerable communities safe.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Dmitriy Popov, 20, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. He was convicted today of first-degree manslaughter as a hate crime, second-degree menacing, second-degree aggravated harassment, and fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon following a jury trial before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Dena Douglas. Sentencing was set for June 30, 2026, at which time the defendant faces up to 25 years in prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on July 29, 2023, at approximately 11:06 p.m., at a Mobil gas station located at 1935 Coney Island Avenue in Midwood, Brooklyn, O’Shae Sibley and four of his friends stopped to fill up their car with gas after returning from the beach. Still in their beachwear, they stepped out to stretch their legs while listening to music, with one member of the group dancing outside their vehicle. The defendant and two associates then exited the gas station store and hurled homophobic and racist slurs at the men, saying, in sum and substance, “Get that gay s–t out of here.”
Sibley attempted to diffuse the situation and he and his friends responded, in substance, “You don’t know us, we’re just having a good time and enjoying our lives. It’s all respect, we’re allowed to be here just like you.” The defendant’s friends left at some point, but the defendant remained outside the gas station store, recording on his cell phone and continuing to antagonize the group with hateful remarks. When Sibley and two of his friends confronted the defendant, he reached into his pocket and pointed a knife at one of Sibley’s friends, threatening to stab him. The defendant then stabbed Sibley on the side of his chest, puncturing his heart, according to the evidence.
Sibley was pronounced dead at Maimonides Hospital a short time later.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sarah Jafari, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Prabhalya Pulim, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief and Assistant District Attorney Kelli Muse, Hate Crimes Bureau Chief.
#
