Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Killing Girlfriend, Firing at Second Victim Inside East Flatbush Home - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 28, 2026
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Killing Girlfriend,
Firing at Second Victim Inside East Flatbush Home
Defendant Shot Victim Multiple Times, Then Fired Through Door as Others Hid with Infant
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for fatally shooting his 49-year-old girlfriend inside their East Flatbush home, then turning the gun on others in the house as they hid in a bedroom with a newborn baby.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Jacqueline Wilson was shot to death inside her own home and others, including a terrified family with a six-week-old baby, were forced to barricade themselves to survive. This was a senseless act of violence and I hope today’s sentence brings some measure of solace to the family, who endured unthinkable pain and trauma at the hands of this defendant.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Peter Hibbert, 51, of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Warin to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on March 18, 2026, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 7, 2023, at approximately 2:55 a.m., inside a residence on East 96
th
Street in East Flatbush, the defendant shot Jacqueline Wilson, 49, multiple times, killing her. The defendant and the victim had been in a relationship for approximately three years and lived together in the home.
Also inside the home at the time were the victim’s adult daughter, her husband and their newborn baby. After shooting Wilson, the defendant pointed a handgun at the couple and fired toward them as they fled into a bedroom and shut the door. Two bullets pierced the door as the couple barricaded themselves inside with the infant while waiting for police. Neither the couple nor their baby were hit by gunfire.
The defendant was discovered by police shortly after the shooting sleeping in the basement of the home and was arrested.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Farin Chasin-Fodeman and Assistant District Attorney Victoria Mulhern, of the District Attorney’s Domestic Violence Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kori Medow, Bureau Chief.
#
