Long Island Man Sentenced to 12 Years for Sex Trafficking of a Child - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 22, 2026
Long Island Man Sentenced to 12 Years for Sex Trafficking of a Child
Defendant Recruited the 15-year-old Victim on Social Media
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a man has been sentenced to 12 years in prison following his guilty plea to sex trafficking of a child for forcing a 15-year-old girl to engage in sexual activity for money.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant exploited a 15-year-old girl at a time of vulnerability and subjected her to manipulation, abuse and profound harm for his own profit. Today’s sentence holds him accountable, and we remain committed to supporting survivors with compassion and pursuing justice against those who traffic and exploit young people.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Terrence Reid, a.k.a. Chinchilla, 46, of Hempstead, New York. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 12 years in prison and five years of supervised release. He must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison. The defendant pleaded guilty to one count of sex trafficking of a child on March 4, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, in early 2022 the defendant messaged the victim, who was 14 years old at that time, on Instagram, and they messaged back and forth for a few days.
In May 2023, the 15-year-old, who was going through challenges at home, agreed to meet with the defendant, who picked her up at her aunt’s home in Brooklyn.
The defendant then took the victim to a hotel in East Orange, New Jersey, had semi-nude photos of her taken, and posted them online on a website used for prostitution along with another adult female that the defendant had engaging in prostitution for him.
The victim, and the second female, were driven to a prostitution street track on Pennsylvania Avenue in the 75th Precinct, where she was forced to walk the track all night until about 7 a.m. the following morning.
The 15-year-old engaged in numerous acts of sex for money while walking the “Penn Track” from May 22 to May 25, 2023. The defendant imposed a $300 a day quota on her, warning “it would be a problem” if she did not meet the quota.
Furthermore, on May 25, 2023, while on the “Penn Track,” the 15-year-old was assaulted and robbed by a man who paid to have sex with her. When she told the defendant what happened, he screamed at her and ordered her to get back on the track.
Finally, while everyone was sleeping at a hotel in Queens where the defendant had been keeping her, the 15-year-old sneaked out of the room, got in a taxi and reported the incidents to her case worker.
The case was investigated by Detective Courtney Thorpe of the New York City Police Department-FBI Child Exploitation & Human Trafficking Task Force, under the supervision of Lieutenant Amy Morin and the overall supervision of Inspector Gary Marcus.
Special Agent Margaret Murphy from the FBI NY Field Office, Sergeant Justin Gaudino and Detective Konrad Rozwadowski from the Manchester, Connecticut Police Department assisted in the investigation.
The District Attorney thanked Victim Specialist Erica Bell & IA Whitney Heres from the FBI NY Field Office, Office Manager Aurora Martinez and Social Worker Raquel Alger from the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit and Senior Digital Forensic Analyst Taylor Mumley, from the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab, for their assistance on the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau.
#
