Brooklyn Daycare Teacher Arraigned on Indictment Charging Him with Sexually Abusing Young Girls - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 11, 2026
Brooklyn Daycare Teacher Arraigned on Indictment
Charging Him with Sexually Abusing Young Girls
Was Employed at a Bushwick Childcare Center;
Alleged Abuse Took Place at Center and Brooklyn Bridge Park
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man who worked as a teacher at a Bushwick childcare center has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with repeatedly sexually abusing four young girls when they were between the ages of five and nine years old.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The conduct alleged in this case shocks the conscious. Innocent children were entrusted to a teacher’s care to safely learn and grow, but instead this defendant allegedly shuttered that trust in the worst way. We can never tolerate the disturbing exploitation and abuse of children alleged in this case and will continue to aggressively prosecute this and any other case in which someone abuses their position of authority to harm a child.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Devonte Brown, 30, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree course of sexual conduct against a child, seven counts of first-degree sexual abuse, seven counts of second-degree sexual abuse, seven counts of forcible touching and four counts of endangering the welfare of a child. He was ordered held on $150,000 cash bail, $300,000 insurance bond or $500,000 partially secured bond, and to return to court on March 27, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between April 1, 2024 and August 22, 2025, on multiple occasions, the defendant allegedly subjected four young girls — whose ages at the time were 5, 5, 6 and 9 — to sexual abuse while they were students at the Bushwick childcare center and under his supervision. It is alleged that the criminal conduct included touching intimate body parts with both hands over and under the victims’ clothing while inside the childcare center. On one occasion in July 2025, the defendant allegedly sexually abused one of the children while at Brooklyn Bridge Park, Pier 6.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, the defendant is alleged to have intimidated at least one of the children into silence by threatening her that their favorite teacher would be fired if they told an adult. In August and September 2025, the children disclosed the abuse to their parents, who contacted law enforcement.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Roxana Moussavian of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Bureau Chief.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
