Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Allegedly Striking Woman Intentionally with His Car - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, January 23, 2026
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Attempted Murder and Other Charges for Allegedly Striking Woman Intentionally with His Car
The Victim was Captured on Surveillance Video Being Struck as She Stepped into Crosswalk
In East New York Area Known as the Penn Track
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with attempted murder, assault and other charges in connection with striking a woman in the vicinity of Wortman Avenue and Alabama Avenue, known as the “Penn Track,” a stretch of roadway that is frequently used by people engaging in sexual conduct for money.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Targeting a vulnerable individual in a crosswalk is a cowardly act of extreme depravity that will not be tolerated in Brooklyn. We allege that the victim in this case was subjected to a terrifying, intentional assault that could have cost her life. Having reached historic milestones in public safety last year, we will not permit this kind of brazen violence to threaten the security of our streets. My office remains steadfast in our commitment to protect every member of our community, and we will vigorously seek accountability for this despicable alleged crime.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Kevin Morgan, 31, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned yesterday before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice John Hecht on an indictment in which he is charged with second-degree attempted murder, second-degree assault, first-degree attempted assault, and first-degree reckless endangerment. The defendant is being held on bail of $50,000 cash or $250,000 bond and ordered to return to court on March 4, 2026.
The District Attorney said that the investigation began when the victim, a 25-year-old woman, who was engaging in sexual conduct for money at the time, reported to police that she had been assaulted by several people in the vicinity of Wortman Avenue and Alabama Avenue, on January 1, 2024.
While looking into that assault, investigators recovered surveillance footage of a red Jeep, registered to the defendant, stopped at the intersection Wortman Avenue and Alabama Avenue, that allegedly showed the red Jeep accelerate directly into the victim while she was standing in crosswalk, in the morning hours of January 1, 2024.
In addition, another video taken from inside the Jeep that captured the victim being struck was recently found on an iPad that was seized during a traffic stop of the Jeep, according to the investigation. The defendant was driving the Jeep when he was stopped for an alleged traffic infraction.
The video was allegedly taken by a female passenger from the backseat of the Jeep and allegedly captures the defendant saying “Oh, there she go — she in the middle of the thing.” The unidentified female responded: “Oh, perfect opportunity.” The video then shows the Jeep allegedly driving directly into the victim.
Finally, it is alleged, the defendant sent the video to multiple individuals at one point saying, “I don’t regret it. This was a message to everybody. Not playing around this year.”
The victim was taken to Brookdale Hospital where she was treated for injuries consistent with being assaulted and being struck by a motor vehicle, though she allegedly has no independent memory of being struck by the Jeep. No one has been arrested for the January 1, 2024, alleged assault of the victim.
The investigation was led by New York City Police Department Detective Mark Shackel, of the FBI-NYPD Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Task Force, under the supervision of Lieutenant Amy Morin, and under the overall supervision of Inspector Gary Marcus.
The District Attorney thanked Special Agent Margaret Murphy from the Federal Bureau of Investigation New York Field Office and Detective Dikensy Moussignac from the New York City Police Department’s Technical Assistance Response Unit for their assistance in this investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Audrey Chao, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the Special Victims Bureau.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
