Fifteen Alleged Members of Coney Island-Based Gangs Charged with Numerous Shootings Across Brooklyn - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 11, 2026
[Note: Materials displayed at the press conference are available
here
]
Fifteen Alleged Members of Coney Island-Based
Gangs Charged with Numerous Shootings Across Brooklyn
16 Shootings, One of Them Fatal, And Six Non-Fatal Victims,
Including Four Innocent Bystanders, One of Whom was Left Paralyzed
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Jessica S. Tisch, today announced that 15 alleged members of two subsets of the 59 Brim Bloods violent street gang known as FOG and Koney Sides, based in Coney Island, have been variously charged with conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to possess weapons, murder, attempted murder, and related charges. The indictment includes charges related to 16 shootings that resulted in seven victims, including one who died of his injuries.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Today’s indictment reflects our commitment to continue to drive down shootings and homicides across Brooklyn by focusing on violent gang members who destabilize our neighborhoods with senseless gunfire. In one instance alleged in this case, some of the defendants unloaded as many as 30 rounds of bullets at perceived rivals. In another, a defendant allegedly carried a firearm in an office meeting with a supervised release counselor, then opened fire on alleged rivals on his way out the door. We cannot accept this type of brazen gun violence on our streets, and I thank the NYPD and our prosecutors for their hard work on this case, which will help make our communities safer.”
“This 13-month investigation closed 16 separate shooting cases and ended the spree of violence and retribution these gang members had unleased across Brooklyn,” said Commissioner Tisch. “It is all part of the NYPD’s precision policing strategy: taking down gangs, removing guns from our streets, and deploying our officers exactly where and when they are needed most. That work continues to drive gun violence in our city down to historic lows, and I thank our NYPD investigators as well as the Brooklyn DA’s Office for their dedicated efforts in this case.”
The defendants were arraigned before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justices Danny K. Chun and Craig S. Walker on an indictment in which they are variously charged with second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, and related charges. There are a total of 113 counts in the indictment against 15 defendants who are alleged members of two subsets of the 59 Brim Bloods in Coney Island known as “Fly Ooter Gang,” a.k.a., FOG, and “Koney Sides.”
The District Attorney said the indictments are the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the New York City Police Department’s Gun Violence Suppression Division that started in January 2024 and continued through the present. The investigation focused on two street gangs that operate out of several neighboring housing complexes in Coney Island. FOG/Koney Sides territory encompasses the area of Coney Island from West 15th Street to West 37th Street, between Surf Avenue and Neptune Avenue.
Rival gangs to FOG/Koney Sides are numerous and span a large area of central Brooklyn. They include WOOO, Choo, 780, Folk Nation, GWAY, R2R, and Drench, variously based in Brownsville, East Flatbush, Crown Heights, Coney Island, Gravesend, and East New York. Over the course of the investigation the defendants allegedly traveled extensively to commit acts of violence against their rivals; the charged incidents in this indictment occurred in nine different police precincts from Coney Island to Downtown Brooklyn.
The investigation revealed that the acts of violence in this indictment were allegedly committed by the defendants to maintain their territorial dominance, as well as to retaliate against taunts by rival gangs regarding the April 27, 2025 homicide of FOG/Koney Side member Javon Johnnie and the April 29, 2025 friendly-fire homicide of FOG/Koney Side member Tamari Carmona. The defendants also regularly exchanged taunts with their rivals through music videos and social media, including in an online chat group to which some of the defendants and numerous rivals belonged.
It is alleged that many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Significant incidents that are charged as part of the conspiracies include:
• The homicide charged in the indictment took place on April 29, 2025, at approximately 12:25 a.m. It is alleged that defendant Tyquan Holmes, two unidentified others, and Tamari Carmona, 17, traveled to the Flatbush Gardens Housing Complex in Folk Nation territory and fired in the direction of two Folk members they encountered. It is alleged that the FOG/Koney Side members instead struck Carmona, who died of a gunshot wound to the head. In subsequent text messages, Holmes allegedly admitted his involvement to a friend and, five days after the murder, texted his mom, “Somebody’s life got took,,, and I was envolved (sic).”
• On May 30, 2025, at approximately 8:04 p.m., it is alleged that defendants Kristian Blackstock, Christopher Smart, and two unidentified others walked up to the house of a known rival in Canarsie and all four allegedly began firing numerous rounds toward the house. Blackstock was arrested a few blocks from the scene and police recovered a 9mm pistol. At least 18 shots were fired at the scene. The investigation revealed that in the hours and minutes before the shooting, defendants were texting in a large group chat that included associates and rivals, with Smart being egged on to “boom” an opposition member nicknamed JC. Two minutes after the shooting, Smart allegedly texted, “Take that JC.”
• On February 20, 2026, at approximately 11 p.m., it is alleged, defendants Isef Richards, Christopher Moore, and an unapprehended other, were in the vicinity of Newkirk Avenue in East Flatbush, in Folk Nation territory, when all three fired their weapons at three individuals standing on a corner. It is alleged that 30 rounds were fired. A 16-year-old, innocent non-gang member was struck in the abdomen and treated at a hospital. The shooting was allegedly retaliation for the ambush shooting earlier that same day of FOG/Koney Side member and rapper Elijah Lewis by Folk rivals in East Flatbush. Lewis was struck in the shoulder.
• On March 2, 2026, defendant Christopher Moore had an in-person appearance at the Center for Justice Innovation in Downtown Brooklyn as a condition of his supervised release. After meeting with his counselor, he went to the lobby and ran into three Folk members, it is alleged, followed them out the door with a gun visible in his hand, and shot at one of the individuals at close range as they ran up Elm Place, but missed. Two .40 caliber cartridge casings were recovered at the scene, as well as a bullet fragment between panes of glass at 236 Livingston Street.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Department Detectives Brian Mahon and Ryan McGowan, under the supervision of Sergeant James Haley of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, Lieutenant Christopher Siani and the overall supervision of Inspector Craig Edelman.
The District Attorney thanked the following for their assistance on the case: Digital Evidence Lab Analyst Sindy Pelaez, under the supervision of Unit Chief Jingu Chong; Paralegals Kevin Ourvan, Catherine Prigov, and Vincent Ryan, under the supervision of Supervising Paralegal Marta Kuklik; members of the District Attorney’s School Advocacy Bureau; and KCDA Detective Investigators.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Daniel Stern, Matthew Bennett, Katrina Gomez, and Jonathan Gross, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Deputy Bureau Chiefs Gillian DiPietro and Karen Varriale, First Deputy Bureau Chief Jennifer Cilia, and Bureau Chief Alfred DeIngeniis.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
FOG/Koney Sides members
1. Randy Belle, 18
2. Kristian Blackstock, 17
3. Nehemiah Dash, 18
4. Cornell Graham, 18
5. Gabriel Greenidge, 18
6. Kamar Hines, 19
7. Tyquan Holmes, 18
8. Julien Johnnie, 20
9. Elijah Lewis, 18
10. Christopher Moore, 21
11. Isef Richards, 27
12. Christopher Smart, 16
13. Taj Underwood, 23
14. Jhosue Valdespino, 17
15. Andreus Williams, 18
