Brooklyn Heights Co-Op Board President Indicted for Allegedly Stealing More Than $700K From Shareholders - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, June 2, 2026
Brooklyn Heights Co-Op Board President Indicted for
Allegedly Stealing More Than $700K From Shareholders
Defendant Allegedly Used Stolen Funds to Pay Mortgages and Buy Luxury Goods,
Including Rolex Watch and Dozens of Pairs of Designer Shoes
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a New Jersey woman has been arraigned on an indictment charging her with stealing more than $700,000 from the shareholders of the 40-unit Brooklyn Heights cooperative building where she served as board president.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant allegedly turned a position of trust into a six-year scheme to steal from her neighbors, spending more than seven hundred thousand dollars meant to maintain a cooperative on luxury items and personal bills. Board members are entrusted with the financial security of their communities, and we will prosecute anyone who exploits their authority to criminally enrich themselves.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Isabelle Gallier, 60, of Keansburg, New Jersey. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which she is charged with second-degree grand larceny. She was released without bail and ordered to return to court on August 12, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the indictment, between approximately January 1, 2018 and February 29, 2024, Gallier allegedly used her position as board president of the cooperative at 130 Hicks Street to steal $708,216.61 in funds intended for the operation of the building. She allegedly used $218,351.36 to pay her personal mortgages and $125,754.82 on luxury goods, including $12,489.50 on furs, $4,028.38 on a Rolex watch and $53,022.55 on 150 pairs of designer shoes, including 28 pairs of Christian Louboutins and 16 pairs of Valentinos.
After the defendant was voted out as board president and a new board took over, the building’s financial records were turned over, revealing the alleged theft. Gallier subsequently sold her three units in the building and moved out.
The District Attorney thanked KCDA Chief Financial Investigator Ludwig Sanchez and KCDA Detective Investigators for their work on the case.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Richa Bhasin, of the District Attorney’s Frauds Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Frank Longobardi, Bureau Chief, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Michel Spanakos, Deputy Chief of the Investigations Division, and Assistant District Attorney Patricia McNeill, Chief of the Investigations Division.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
