Staten Island Woman Indicted for String of Hate Crime Assaults Targeting Muslim Victims in Bay Ridge - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 25, 2026
Staten Island Woman Indicted for String of Hate Crime Assaults
Targeting Muslim Victims in Bay Ridge
Three People Attacked, Including 12-Year-Old Girl, in Series of Unprovoked Attacks
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Staten Island woman has been arraigned on an indictment in which she is charged with assault as a hate crime and related offenses in connection with a series of unprovoked attacks against three Muslim people in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The victims were targeted while wearing religious attire when the incidents occurred.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This defendant is accused of targeting three people, including a child, in a string of unprovoked assaults allegedly fueled by anti-Muslim bias. No one should be attacked, threatened, or made to fear for their safety because of their faith. We will seek to hold this defendant accountable and will continue working to protect all Brooklyn residents from hate and violence.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Megan Horne, 34, of Staten Island. She was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which she is charged with third-degree assault as a hate crime, third-degree assault, third-degree attempted assault as a hate crime, third-degree attempted assault, third-degree menacing as a hate crime, third-degree menacing, second-degree aggravated harassment and endangering the welfare of a child. The defendant remains on supervised release and was ordered to return to court on May 27, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 30, 2026, at approximately 2:25 p.m., near Fifth Avenue and 89th Street in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly approached a 33-year-old woman wearing a hijab and punched and kicked her while making anti-Muslim statements.
Minutes later, near 92nd Street and Gelston Avenue in Bay Ridge, the defendant allegedly approached a 12-year-old girl who was also wearing a hijab and punched her in the face.
Shortly thereafter, near Fort Hamilton Parkway and 92nd Street, the defendant allegedly approached a 39-year-old woman wearing a hijab and pushed her as she was boarding a bus, again making a statement directed at the victim’s perceived religion.
According to the investigation, the defendant fled each scene. The victims suffered pain, redness and fear for their safety, but declined medical attention at the time.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sharmalee Brooks-Gordon, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Chief of the Hate Crimes Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
