Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Murder and Other Charges for Shooting That Killed Infant, Wounded Toddler Brother - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 14, 2026
Brooklyn Man Arraigned on Murder and Other Charges for
Shooting That Killed Infant, Wounded Toddler Brother
Defendant Allegedly Drove Moped as Co-Defendant Fired into Crowd,
Killing Seven-Month-Old and Grazing Her Two-Year-Old Brother While Both Were in Stroller
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Brooklyn man, Mathew Rodriguez, has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with murder, assault and related counts in connection with a fatal shooting that killed a seven-month-old baby, Kaori Patterson-Moore, and wounded her two-year-old brother while they were being pushed in a stroller by another child on an East Williamsburg street. His co-defendant will be arraigned tomorrow.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “On a beautiful spring day, this senseless act of gun violence took the life of an innocent baby, traumatized a family and shook an entire community. Little Kaori was killed, and her two-year-old brother was wounded — all because of a decision to settle a dispute with gunfire, with no regard for who might be harmed. With homicides in Brooklyn at a record low, this is exactly the kind of violence that we must fight against and never accept. We are determined to hold these defendants fully accountable.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Mathew Rodriguez, 18, of Brooklyn. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on an indictment in which he is charged with three counts of second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second-degree assault, two counts of first-degree criminal use of a firearm, two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, criminal possession of a firearm, first-degree reckless endangerment, three counts of endangering the welfare of a child, tampering with physical evidence, first-degree hindering prosecution and second-degree hindering prosecution. He was ordered held without bail and to return to court on June 10, 2026. His co-defendant, Amuri Greene, 21, of Brooklyn, will be arraigned on the same indictment tomorrow.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on April 1, 2026, at approximately 1:15 p.m., near the corner of Humboldt Street and Moore Street in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the defendants, while acting in concert, allegedly rode on a moped with Rodriguez driving and Greene as a passenger. As the defendants approached a group of adults and children gathered on the street, Greene allegedly pulled out a handgun and fired multiple times into the crowd.
As a result of the shooting, a seven-month-old baby, Kaori Patterson-Moore, who was seated in a stroller, was struck in the head by a bullet and died from her injuries. Her two-year-old brother was grazed by a bullet in the back and survived.
The investigation revealed that the defendants fled the scene on the moped, which struck a vehicle while going the wrong way on a one-way street and crashed a few blocks from the scene of the shooting. Greene was apprehended shortly thereafter, and Rodriguez was later arrested in Pennsylvania.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Christopher Mirabella and Jonathan Visotzky, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief and overall supervision of Executive Assistant District Attorney Joseph Alexis, Chief of the District Attorney’s Trial Division.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
