Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in Prison for Prospect Lefferts Gardens Murder - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 18, 2026
Brooklyn Man Sentenced to 23 Years to Life in Prison for
Prospect Lefferts Gardens Murder
Defendant Shook Victim’s Hand Moments Before Firing Multiple Shots
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Crown Heights man has been sentenced to 23 years to life in prison for the fatal shooting of a 21-year-old up-and-coming rapper.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This was a calculated killing carried out on a Brooklyn street. The defendant approached the victim, shook his hand and then fired numerous shots at point-blank range. As we continue to drive down crime in Brooklyn, acts of gun violence such as these will not be tolerated, and we will aggressively prosecute anyone who leaves families in mourning and communities fearing for their safety.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Caliph Glean, 33, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Jay Weiner to 23 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on December 10, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on May 10, 2020, at approximately 9:25 p.m., the defendant approached the victim, Nickalus “Blixky” Thompson, on the sidewalk on Winthrop Street in Prospect Lefferts Gardens. After shaking the victim’s hand, the defendant drew a handgun, aimed at the victim and waited for a witness to be out of view before firing five times. Two of the shots struck the victim in the lungs and heart. He was pronounced dead shortly thereafter.
The defendant took steps before and after the shooting to conceal his identity and avoid arrest, according to the evidence, but was apprehended in June 2020 in Philadelphia.
The District Attorney thanked Intelligence Analyst Victoria Genna-Schmidt of the KCDA Digital Evidence Lab, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jingu Chong, Chief of the Digital Evidence Lab, as well as Paralegal John Homnick and KCDA Detective Investigators for their assistance in the investigation.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Robert Schwartz, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Douglas Steinberg, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
