Thirty-Six Alleged Members of Two Rival Brownsville-Based Gangs Charged in Two Indictments - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 15, 2026
[
Note:
Materials shown at the press conference are available
here
.]
Thirty-Six Alleged Members of Two Rival Brownsville-Based
Gangs Charged in Two Indictments
36 Shootings, One of Them Fatal, And 10 Non-Fatal Victims,
Including an Innocent Bystander; In Separate Incident Alleged Rival Viciously
Stomped in Gang Assault in the Vicinity of Downtown Brooklyn Courts
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez, together with New York City Police Commissioner Jessica S. Tisch, today announced that 36 alleged members of two rival street gangs known as WOOO and CHOO have been variously charged with conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to possess weapons, and other related charges including murder, attempted murder, reckless endangerment, and weapons possession. The indictments include charges related to 36 shootings that resulted in 11 victims, including one who died as a result of his injuries. One innocent bystander was struck while putting out the trash.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This takedown is one part of our comprehensive strategy to drive down shootings and homicides across Brooklyn. These defendants were allegedly responsible for a remarkable amount of gunfire, with 36 shootings that terrorized Brownsville residents. Our success in focusing on the drivers of crime such as those charged in this indictment, while also working with community groups on preventative efforts, led to record low gun violence in Brooklyn last year with major declines in Brownsville that continued into this year. I commend the NYPD and our prosecutors for their tireless work in keeping our communities safe.”
NYPD Commissioner Tisch said, “The indictments announced today are the culmination of a long-term investigation into some of the most violent criminals in New York City. Their vicious campaign of retaliation and retribution — waged with absolutely no regard for human life — turned every slight into a shootout and terrorized these communities for years. Now, thanks to the targeted, precision policing of the NYPD, these gang members and dozens of guns are off our streets. This is all because of the tireless work of the NYPD’s Gun Violence Suppression Division and our partners in the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office.”
The defendants were arraigned before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Craig Walker and Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on two separate indictments in which they are variously charged with first-, second- and fourth-degree conspiracy, second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, and related charges. There are a total of 188 counts in the indictments against 36 defendants – 16 alleged WOOO members and 20 alleged CHOO members.
The District Attorney said the indictments are the result of a long-term investigation by the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau and the New York City Police Department’s Gun Violence Suppression Division that started in March 2023 and continued through the present. The investigation focused on two street gangs that operate out of several neighboring housing complexes in Brownsville.
On one side is the WOOO/780 alliance, based in the Seth Low Houses, Van Dyke Houses, Langston Hughes Houses, Noble Drew Ali Plaza, and Brownsville Houses. WOOO is made up of numerous subsets, including the larger Gorilla Stone Bloods and Bloodhound Brim Bloods and small neighborhood crews including Young Risk Takers and Brothers Over Everything, and “780” which refers to a neighborhood crew that predominantly operates out of Noble Drew Ali Plaza.
On the other side of the rivalry is CHOO, based in the Tilden Houses, Howard Houses, Marcus Garvey Village, Newport Gardens, and Riverdale Towers; similarly, CHOO is made up of a collection of gangs, including Folk Nation (also known as Gangster Disciples), Hoodstarz, and the smaller crews Trained to Floxk and Prepared for Anything.  Some WOOO- and CHOO-controlled housing complexes are located on the same street.
The investigation revealed that the acts of violence charged in the indictment, including 35 shootings and one homicide, were motivated by a rivalry between the two alliances of the Brownsville street gangs, the WOOO and the CHOO alliance. The alliances, which were not a single unified gang, but rather a network of distinct gangs or neighborhood crews that operate in alignment based on the shared objectives of establishing and maintaining geographic control and dominance over a shared territory, exacting revenge for violence against the alliance’s members and associates, and working to further enhance the status, prestige, and reputation of their particular group.
While it is alleged that the two groups regularly exchange taunts over music videos and on social media, they also consistently travel to one another’s territory to inflict actual violence.
During the conspiracy period covered in the indictment, there was allegedly one fatal shooting by a WOOO defendant that took the life of a perceived rival, Tahriq Thompson, 34, and 17 shootings involving alleged WOOO defendants which resulted in four non-fatal victims and 13 shootings with no one injured.
Furthermore, the indictment variously charges CHOO defendants with 18 alleged shootings that included six non-fatal shootings with six victims, including one innocent bystander and 12 additional shootings in which no one was injured. Two CHOO members are also charged with gang assault in connection with the stomping of a perceived rival gang member in Downtown Brooklyn.
It is alleged that many of the acts of violence were captured on surveillance videos. Furthermore, it is alleged that the defendants boasted about their criminal activities on social media and in music videos.
The homicide charged in the indictment took place on June 29, 2025, at approximately 2:56 a.m., in front of 280 Riverdale Avenue. It is alleged that WOOO defendant Jaden Grant and an unidentified accomplice walked to Riverdale Towers (CHOO territory). The unidentified accomplice allegedly fired multiple shots in the vicinity of 280 Riverdale Avenue, then handed the gun to Grant, who allegedly fired several times before both fled the area. Tariq Thompson, 34, a perceived rival, was struck in the left shoulder. The bullet caused perforations to his lungs and aorta, and he later died.
Other significant incidents that are charged as part of the conspiracies include:
On April 22, 2023, at approximately 2:48 p.m., CHOO defendant Bryan Ramos and two unidentified accomplices allegedly went to rival WOOO territory, the Van Dyke Houses, and approached a playground where children were playing and fired multiple rounds across the playground and fled the scene. No one was struck and children can be seen on surveillance videos scrambling to safety to avoid the bullets.
On August 1, 2023, at approximately 3:51 p.m., WOOO defendant Deshawn Nimmons (who previously pleaded guilty and is not included in this indictment) walked with a group from Noble Drew Ali Plaza in WOOO territory to Champion Cutz, a barbershop located at 557 Chester Street, where he spotted alleged CHOO rival Jeffrey Thomas inside the barbershop. Nimmons pulled a mask over his face, removed a gun from his sweatshirt and fired into the barbershop, according to surveillance videos. Seconds later, it is alleged, Thomas emerged from the barbershop and returned fire at the group. Instead, he struck a 69-year-old innocent bystander in the torso while he was putting out his trash. Nimmons fled the scene and three blocks from the barbershop allegedly shot a 22-year-old CHOO member in the right arm.
On June 12, 2024, at approximately 3:30 p.m., video surveillance allegedly depicts CHOO members Marvellous Ehigiator, Nasir Wade and Tristan McFarlane (who previously pleaded guilty and is not included in this indictment) chasing after a 17-year-old alleged WOOO rival. They chased him into the vicinity of One Metrotech. Wade allegedly caught the victim, threw him to the ground and video surveillance depicts the three of them kicking the victim about his body and head, and Wade jumping with his full body and stomping on the victim’s head. The victim suffered a brain bruise, traumatic brain injury and right lower extremity weakness, and had to undergo extensive rehab to relearn how to use his right leg.
The investigation was conducted by New York City Police Department Detectives Justin Vazquez, Frank Aliberti, Ibrahim Cisse, and Andre O’Hara, of the Gun Violence Suppression Division, under the supervision of Sergeant Michael Lassen. Detective Michael Fung of the 73
rd
Precinct assisted with the investigation.
The District Attorney thanked the following for their assistance on the case: Digital Evidence Lab Analysts Brooke Allen, Tim Brown, Taylor Mumley, and Sindy Pelaez, under the supervision of Unit Chief Jingu Chong; Paralegals Myles Edwards, Abigail Marshall, Catherine Prigov, Tania Lopez, and Shanoy Williams, under the supervision of Supervising Paralegal Marta Kuklik; members of the District Attorney’s School Advocacy Bureau; and KCDA Detective Investigators.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorneys Winnie Choi, Uchechukwu Enwereuzor, Marjeta Nikolovski, Michael Pesin-Virovets, Lara Litton, and Ashley Thompson, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, under the supervision of Deputy Bureau Chief Gillian DiPietro, First Deputy Bureau Chief Jennifer Cilia, and Bureau Chief Alfred DeIngeniis.
#
An indictment is merely an accusation and not proof of a defendant’s guilt.
DEFENDANT ADDENDUM:
WOOO Members:
Jamir Barnett, 20
Amir Bryant, 17
Kemari Chance, 19
Anijah Dicks, 23
Kadir Ellison, 18
Jaden Grant, 19
Azir Holliman, 17
Zhaimere Jackson, 18
Amari Johnson, 18
Nahjaa Lawrence, 16
Wynique Lawrence, 18
Darrell Moore, 21
Delor Scarboro, 27
Unique Sparks, 20
Dayshawn Taylor, 21
Prince Teran, 18
CHOO Members
Paul Moore, 25
Malik Williams, 20
Quavon Hall, 20
Bryan Ramos, 18
Marvellous Ehigiator, 18
Jeffrey Thomas, 20
Derek Burnett, 19
Naheem Record, 18
Kareem Shepherd, 19
Malachi Demery, 19
Kheyden Graham, 16
Jacob Whitaker, 17
Nathaniel Boston, 17
Jamel Wright, 17
Nasir Wade, 18
Trillion Brown, 16
Jeremiah Johnson, 17
Miles Jordan, 18
Dwayne Sutton, 19
Emilio Cruz, 16
