Bushwick Man Sentenced for Sex Trafficking Teenage Girls - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 11, 2026
Bushwick Man Sentenced for Sex Trafficking Teenage Girls
Recruited Two 15-year-olds and a 17-year-old to Engage in Sexual Conduct for Money;
Arrested Following Undercover Sting
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bushwick man has been sentenced to eight years in prison after pleading guilty to sex trafficking of a child for recruiting multiple victims, including three teenage girls, ages 15 to 17, to engage in sexual conduct for money.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “The exploitation of our most vulnerable populations for profit is among the most disturbing crimes we prosecute, and the harm inflicted on survivors of trafficking and sexual violence is profound and lasting. My office is committed to protecting survivors and will continue to aggressively pursue anyone who exploits others for money and remove them from our streets.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Terrence Rogers, a.k.a., Aura, 35, of Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today to eight years in prison and five years of post-release supervision by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun. He pleaded guilty to sex trafficking of a child on December 3, 2025. The defendant must register as a sex offender upon his release from prison.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, between March 9, 2024, and April 12, 2024, Rogers recruited a 15-year-old girl to engage in sexual conduct for money on multiple occasions from his apartment at Halsey Street in Bushwick. The victim was introduced to the defendant by a classmate, also 15, who was engaging in sexual conduct for money for the defendant at the time. Rogers posted the 15-year-old’s photo on a website advertising sexual services. He also gave her a cellphone and instructed her on how to communicate with customers and how much to charge them.
Furthermore, according to the investigation, Rogers sexually assaulted the 15-year-old victim on April 12, 2024. More than a month later, the defendant messaged her on Snapchat and threatened to a post a nude photo of her online unless she continued to engage in sexual conduct for money. After the victim returned to the defendant’s apartment, he posted the nude photo on a website advertising sexual services before forcibly touching her.
On June 13, 2024, the victim reported the assault to a school social worker who contacted police. The District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit and the New York City Police Department then launched an undercover investigation.
On July 3, 2024, an undercover officer responded to a live online advertisement posting for prostitution in Brooklyn with images of the underage victims. The undercover officer called the phone number provided in the advertisement and was directed to the Halsey Street location. Inside the defendant’s apartment, the undercover officer made an agreement to have sex with a 22-year-old woman for $100. A field team then raided the apartment. As police were entering, Rogers was caught leaving the bathroom with a 17-year-old victim who was partially undressed. He was arrested at the location.
The case was investigated by New York City Police Detective Kevin Deleon and Detective Latasha Carter from the NYPD’s Human Trafficking Squad, under the supervision of Sergeant Kevin Kavanagh, Lieutenant Christopher Zizza, Lieutenant Amy Morin, and the overall supervision of Inspector Gary Marcus.
The District Attorney thanked Office Manager Aurora Martinez from the District Attorney’s Office Human Trafficking Unit and Digital Forensic Analyst Richard Rojas from the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab for his assistance in the case.
The case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Mary E. Monahan, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Human Trafficking Unit, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney David Weiss, Chief of the Human Trafficking Unit, and the overall supervision of Assistant District Attorney Miss Gregory, Chief of the District Attorney’s Special Victims Bureau.
#
