Fort Greene Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting Outside Baby Shower at Brooklyn Church - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, February 10, 2026
Fort Greene Man Sentenced to 25 Years to Life in Prison for Fatal Shooting
Outside Baby Shower at Brooklyn Church
Accidental Bump Inside Church Annex Escalated into Fatal Dispute
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Fort Greene, Brooklyn man has been sentenced to 25 years to life in prison for the fatal shooting of 26-year-old Courtney Tingle outside a baby shower held at a Prospect Heights church.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Courtney Tingle was a young father whose life was taken outside a church celebration meant to welcome new life. His family has endured an immeasurable loss, and today’s sentence holds the defendant accountable for that violence. While Brooklyn has seen significant reductions in gun violence since this tragic shooting, my office will continue to prosecute anyone who makes the irreparable decision to take a life.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Daquan Carter, 34, of Fort Greene, Brooklyn. He was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Eugene Guarino to 25 years to life in prison. The defendant was convicted of second-degree murder and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 7, 2025, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, on March 22, 2019, at approximately 10 p.m., the victim was attending a baby shower at a church annex in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn with his girlfriend. During the event, the victim accidentally bumped into a woman, which led to a verbal confrontation involving the defendant and his cousins. The defendant and three of his cousins then lured the victim outside the venue and onto the street.
Once outside, the victim was physically assaulted by two of Carter’s cousins while the defendant waited nearby. The defendant then produced an illegal, loaded firearm and shot the victim four times, striking him as he lay defenseless up against a parked car. The shooting occurred outside a party attended by hundreds of people, including children.
The victim was taken by EMS to an area hospital where he was later pronounced dead. Carter fled the scene and, later, the state. When apprehended in November 2019, the defendant provided false statements to law enforcement that were contradicted by eyewitness testimony, surveillance video and other evidence presented at trial.
The District Attorney thanked Paralegal John Homnick, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Digital Forensic Analyst Richard Rojas, of the Digital Evidence Lab, for their assistance on this case.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Christopher Mirabella and Assistant District Attorney Daphney Gachette, Deputy Chief of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Homicide Bureau Chief.
#
