Bronx Man Indicted for Hate Crime Assault Targeting Gay Victim on Brooklyn Subway - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 3, 2026
Bronx Man Indicted for Hate Crime Assault Targeting
Gay Victim on Brooklyn Subway
Victim Punched and Threatened with Knife in Unprovoked Attack
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that a Bronx man has been arraigned on an indictment in which he is charged with assault and menacing as hate crimes and related offenses in connection with an unprovoked attack against a gay man beginning aboard an L train in the Lorimer Street subway station in Brooklyn.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “Every New Yorker deserves to ride the subway without being threatened or attacked because of who they are or who someone perceives them to be. This defendant is accused of targeting a stranger with homophobic slurs, following him through a station, threatening him with a knife, and repeatedly punching him. We will seek accountability for this alleged hate crime and will always stand with Brooklyn’s LGBTQ+ community against violence, intimidation, and hate.”
The District Attorney identified the defendant as Yeshayahuw Carraway, 41, of the Bronx. He was arraigned today before Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun on a five-count indictment in which is charged with third-degree assault as a hate crime, third-degree assault, third-degree menacing as a hate crime, third-degree menacing and second-degree aggravated harassment. The defendant was released without bail and ordered to return to court on August 12, 2026.
The District Attorney said that, according to the investigation, on January 18, 2026, at approximately 5 a.m., on a northbound L train at the Lorimer Street subway station in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the defendant allegedly approached the 24-year-old victim and stated, “What are you looking at f—ing f—-t? You’re a sissy.” The defendant then allegedly followed the victim off the train and upstairs to the mezzanine, where he displayed a knife and struck the victim multiple times about the face and body with a closed fist. The victim suffered minor injuries to his finger and pain throughout his face and body. The defendant allegedly fled the station after the attack and was arrested following an investigation.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Sharmalee Brooks-Gordon, of the District Attorney’s Hate Crimes Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Kelli M. Muse, Chief of the Hate Crimes Bureau.
#
An indictment is an accusatory instrument and not proof of a defendant’s guilt
