Twin Brothers Sentenced in Connection to Sunset Park Murder Tied to Rikers Island Conspiracy - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 17, 2026
Twin Brothers Sentenced in Connection to Sunset Park Murder
Tied to Rikers Island Conspiracy
One Brother Convicted of Killing 21-Year-Old Man After Alliance Formed
While Twin was Incarcerated Led to Targeted Shooting; Second Brother Convicted of Conspiracy
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that twin brothers have been sentenced in connection to the fatal shooting of a 21-year-old man in a Sunset Park apartment building lobby, a killing that stemmed from a conspiracy that began while one of the defendants was incarcerated on Rikers Island.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “This murder grew out of a conspiracy formed while one of these defendants was incarcerated and resulted in a calculated act of gun violence that killed a young man and put entire communities at risk. We’ve made historic progress in driving gun violence down in Brooklyn, and we will keep holding accountable those who threaten both the safety of our communities and that progress.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Armando Octaviano, 25, of Virginia and Jonny Octaviano, 25, of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Armando Octaviano was sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Danny Chun to 24 years to life in prison. He was convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree conspiracy and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on March 17, 2026, following a jury trial.
Jonny Octaviano was previously sentenced by Justice Chun on April 1, 2026 to an indeterminate term of five to 15 years in prison. He was convicted of second-degree conspiracy on March 17, 2026, following a jury trial.
The District Attorney said that, according to the evidence, the murder was the result of a conspiracy that began when Jonny Octaviano, while incarcerated on Rikers Island for a separate crime, met an inmate who helped form an alliance between a Brooklyn gang the defendants were associated with and a Manhattan-based gang. In the days leading up to the shooting, the defendants and their associates met in person and agreed to carry out acts of violence together, including the targeted killing in this case.
On October 1, 2021, at approximately 4:50 p.m., while Jonny Octaviano was incarcerated, Armando Octaviano traveled to a residential building near 46th Street and Fifth Avenue in Sunset Park. Once inside the lobby, Armando Octaviano shot 21-year-old Jorge Sanango in the chest, killing him. The defendant fled the scene but was later identified through video evidence and other corroborating proof.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Matthew Perry, of the District Attorney’s Homicide Bureau, and Senior Assistant District Attorney Adam Ghalmi, of the District Attorney’s Green Zone Trial Bureau, with assistance from Intelligence Analyst Hiba Abdullah and Digital Forensic Analyst Christina Stewart, of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab, and Paralegal Meghan Brancato, of the Homicide Bureau, under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Leila Rosini, Chief of the Homicide Bureau.
#
