Two Men Sentenced to 45 Years to Life in Prison - The Brooklyn District Attorney's Office
HOME
GET HELP
REPORT A CRIME
CONTACT US
SEAL YOUR CONVICTION
Skip to content
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, April 13, 2026
Two Men Sentenced to 45 Years to Life in Prison
Defendants Convicted of Ambush Murder of Alleged Rival in Clinton Hill,
In Retaliation for the Shooting Death of a 900 Gang Member Days Earlier
Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez today announced that two men affiliated with the violent 900 street gang have each been sentenced to 45 years to life in prison for the murder of one man and the shooting of two innocent bystanders.
District Attorney Gonzalez said, “These defendants walked into a housing complex in the middle of the afternoon, opened fire, took a life, wounded innocent bystanders and put others at risk. Gun violence is at record lows in Brooklyn precisely because the NYPD and our prosecutors relentlessly focus on the drivers of crime such as these defendants, whose pointless and retaliatory gun violence led to far too much bloodshed. Today’s sentences ensure justice for victims and make Brooklyn safer.”
The District Attorney identified the defendants as Alexander Williams, 29, of Brownsville, Brooklyn and Wydeem Rudd, 26, of the Bronx. The defendants were sentenced today by Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Donald Leo to 45 years to life in prison. The defendants were convicted of second-degree murder, second-degree attempted murder, two counts of first-degree attempted assault, two counts of second-degree assault, and two counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon on November 25, 2025, following a jury trial.
On September 8, 2020, at approximately 3:39 p.m., according to the evidence, Alexander Williams, member of the 900 gang, requested a cab from Rainbow Car Service to pick him up in Brownsville, then to stop along the route to pick up Wydeem Rudd, a 900 associate. The cab dropped the defendants at Clifton and Franklin Avenues, near the Lafayette Gardens housing development in Clinton Hill.
The defendants, wearing hoods and masks, walked through Lafayette Gardens, entered the rear of 456 DeKalb Avenue, and then walked to the front of the building. The defendants then ambushed Tylee Felder, 24, who was standing in front of the building. Rudd and Williams shot Felder six times, including in the head, killing him. Rudd then fired into a crowd outside of the building, shooting and wounding two innocent bystanders, a 23-year-old man and a 24-year-old man.
The defendants then fled through the rear of the building and were captured on several surveillance videos. Both removed their sweatshirts, revealing unique arm tattoos. Rudd also removed his mask.
The case was investigated by detectives from the New York City Police Department’s Gun Violence Suppression Division, the 79
th
Precinct Detective Squad, and the Brooklyn North Homicide Squad.
The case was prosecuted by Senior Assistant District Attorney Nicholas Ford and Senior Assistant District Attorney Fabiola Marrufo, of the District Attorney’s Violent Criminal Enterprises Bureau, with assistance from Forensic Digital Analyst Kelly Crawford and Senior Digital Forensic Analyst Sourov Talulkder, of the District Attorney’s Digital Evidence Lab, and under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Jennifer Cilia, First Deputy Bureau Chief of VCE, and Assistant District Attorney Alfred DeIngeniis, Bureau Chief.
#
