Violent Repetitive Retail Predator Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison • Maricopa County Attorney's Office, AZ
Skip to Main Content
Create a Website Account
- Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.
Website Sign In
Search
Home
News Flash
Violent Repetitive Retail Predator Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison
News Flash
Violent Repetitive Retail Predator Sentenced to 19 Years in Prison
MCAO Latest News
Posted on June 01, 2026
(PHOENIX) – Maricopa County Attorney Rachel Mitchell has announced that Gilbert Lara (DOB 11/1972) has been sentenced to 19 years in prison after pleading guilty to one count of Kidnapping, a Class Two Dangerous Felony.
In October 2025, Lara entered a Glendale Cricket retail store armed with a knife and demanded money from an employee. After taking cash from the register, he forced the victim into a back office and ordered her to open a safe. When she was unable to comply, Lara struck her in the face, causing an injury near her eye. He then ordered her to remain in the office while he fled. The victim feared for her life and believed she would be stabbed.
Investigators identified Lara using video surveillance, license plate reader data, and cell phone records, which placed him at the scene. A subsequent search of his residence revealed clothing matching what he wore during the crime.
Lara has a lengthy history of theft-related prior convictions and was on community supervision for armed robbery at the time of this offense.
“Crimes like this go far beyond theft. They involve violence, fear, and control. The defendant’s violent actions and threats caused unimaginable fear and trauma,” said County Attorney Rachel Mitchell. “This 19-year prison sentence holds him accountable for the harm he caused. We also commend the courage and resilience the victim showed throughout this case.”
###
Related News
Shooter Indicted in Death of Teen Girl, Two Babies
MCAO Latest News
Posted on May 01, 2026
Mother Indicted for Daughter's Death in Rollover Crash
MCAO Latest News
Posted on May 25, 2026
Organized Retail Theft of Golf Clubs Leads to 6-Year Sentence
MCAO Latest News
Posted on May 21, 2026
Home Depot Thief Indicted for Organized Retail Crime
MCAO Latest News
Posted on May 21, 2026
Statement from Maricopa County Attorney Rachel Mitchell on Leroy McGill's Execution
MCAO Latest News
Posted on May 20, 2026
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Delicious
Blogger
LinkedIn
Home
My Account
Printer Friendly
Email Page
Contact Us
RSS
Site Map
Translate Page
Notifications
Documents
Annual Reports & Protocols
Public Meeting Notices
Public Records Requests
/QuickLinks.aspx
Brochures, Forms & Information
Criminal Justice Links
Maricopa County Website - Maricopa.gov
/QuickLinks.aspx
Contact Us
Join Our Team!
Site Map
Login
/QuickLinks.aspx
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow
