COOK COUNTY STATE’S ATTORNEY’S OFFICE COORDINATES FIRST-EVER NATIONAL RETAIL CRIME BLITZ ACROSS 28 STATES | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
COOK COUNTY STATE’S ATTORNEY’S OFFICE COORDINATES FIRST-EVER NATIONAL RETAIL CRIME BLITZ ACROSS 28 STATES
June 10, 2025
CONTACT
:
sao.media@cookcountysao.org
Campaign targeting sophisticated crews brings law enforcement, prosecutors and businesses together to combat retail theft; leads to more than 500 arrests
CHICAGO –
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) today announced the results of the first-ever National Organized Retail Crime (ORC) Blitz, a coordinated campaign across 28 states to deter sophisticated retail theft crews from targeting businesses and shops. In partnership with the Cook County State’s Attorney Regional Organized Crime Task Force (CCROC), the CCSAO spearheaded the nationwide effort to promote collaboration between private retailers, law enforcement and prosecutors working to improve public safety and disrupt organized crime networks.
As part of the ORC Blitz, more than
100
law enforcement agencies across
28
states conducted operations on or around May 30, 2025. Agencies are continuing to report their results. Preliminary highlights from the campaign include:
More than
500
felony and misdemeanor arrests related to retail crime.
Participation from approximately
60
retailers, including major brands such as Walgreens, The Home Depot and Ulta Beauty.
More than
$130,000
in stolen goods recovered.
Stolen vehicles, narcotics, and weapons were also seized during arrests.
“Retail crime has become increasingly violent and sophisticated, and if left unchecked, will continue to wreak devastating economic consequences in our communities. The recent nationwide ORC Blitz sends a strong message: we take these crimes seriously and are putting up a united front. Organized retail crime is a public safety issue, it’s a quality-of-life-issue, and it’s an economic issue,”
Cook County
State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke said.
CCSAO’s new Multi-Jurisdiction Bureau (MJB) organized the ORC Blitz and held multiple planning meetings with agencies across the country to coordinate and share best practices. In Cook County, the MJB handles all crimes that cross county and/or state lines, as well as crimes that utilize federal agencies or other agencies outside of Cook County, such as the ATF and FBI. Because retail theft crews are not confined to specific jurisdictions and frequently target retailers across various states and counties, MJB is best equipped to work these cases.
“This has been a tremendous opportunity to proactively enforce the law, build intelligence together and bring visibility to this problem,”
MJB Deputy Bureau Chief, Assistant State’s Attorney David Williams, who leads CCROC, said.
“Based on information gathered during the ORC Blitz, we will be following promising leads that will help investigators stop highly organized crews from striking again. Each jurisdiction, agency, and company designed and executed their blitz based on their specific local circumstances in order to be successful.”
"Initiatives like the national ORC blitz send a strong message to criminals that retailers are working cohesively with law enforcement and that these crimes will be investigated and prosecuted. We are confident that this continued collaboration will advance our shared goal of keeping retail employees, stores and communities safe,"
said Lisa LaBruno, senior executive vice president, Retail Industry Leaders Association.
On her first day in office, Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke announced a new policy directing prosecutors to pursue felony retail theft charges in accordance with state law, when the value of the goods exceeds $300, or when an offender already has a felony shoplifting conviction. For the previous eight years, CCSAO policy held that felonies would only be charged when the value of the goods exceeded $1,000, or if the offender had 10 or more prior convictions. From December 1, 2024, to June 1, 2025, CCSAO had filed charges in 1,450 felony retail theft cases.
###
