Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Receives Richard J. Elrod Public Service Award | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Receives Richard J. Elrod Public Service Award
May 29, 2026
CHICAGO —
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke has received the Richard J. Elrod Public Service Award from the Jewish Judges Association of Illinois, an honor recognizing public servants who demonstrate courage, integrity and a deep commitment to communities.
State’s Attorney Burke was selected in recognition of a dedicated career in public service, spanning the courtroom, the bench and the State’s Attorney’s Office. The Association presented the award to SA Burke at a reception Thursday evening in Chicago.
The award is named in honor of Judge Richard J. Elrod, whose public service included serving as an attorney for the City of Chicago, an Illinois state representative, Cook County Sheriff and a judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
“I am honored to receive an award that memorializes Richard Elrod’s legacy and grateful to the Jewish Judges Association of Illinois for this recognition,” State’s Attorney Burke said. “As a former member of the judiciary, this award carries special meaning for me. I have spent my career believing in the strength of our justice system and the responsibility we all of share to make it work fairly and effectively.”
In her acceptance remarks, Burke also addressed the rise in antisemitic hate crimes experienced by the Jewish community and highlighted steps the CCSAO has taken to strengthen its response to hate crimes.
The office has established a dedicated hate crimes unit to engage with stakeholders, encourage the reporting of hate crimes and ensure that cases are effectively and consistently prosecuted. The Hate Crimes Unit has also launched a training curriculum to ensure prosecutors have specialized skills and knowledge when handling these cases. An inaugural class of 15 Assistant State’s Attorneys recently completed the inaugural training, in addition to their regular courtroom responsibilities.
###
