SIX DEFENDANTS CHARGED IN BRAZEN DAYTIME SMASH AND GRAB OF MICHIGAN AVENUE ROLEX STORE | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
SIX DEFENDANTS CHARGED IN BRAZEN DAYTIME SMASH AND GRAB OF MICHIGAN AVENUE ROLEX STORE
September 08, 2025
CHICAGO
—
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke today announced that charges have been filed against six offenders who allegedly stole $170,500 worth of watches from a Michigan Avenue Rolex store during a brazen daytime smash and grab on September 5, 2025. The offenders allegedly wielded hammers to break open display cases while a patron and workers were inside and then allegedly led law enforcement on a chase down Lake Shore Drive and the Dan Ryan Expressway before they crashed their vehicle and were ultimately apprehended on foot, according to information presented in court.
“Organized retail thieves need to understand we take these crimes extremely seriously and will prosecute offenders to the fullest extent of the law,”
State’s Attorney Burke said.
“These are far from victimless crimes, and I applaud the Chicago Police Department for their swift work bringing these offenders to justice.”
The defendants were charged with theft by unauthorized control of property exceeding $100,000 and $500,000, burglary, and criminal damage to property between $500 and $10,000 — all of which are felonies. They appeared in First Appearance Court today and were ordered detained.
According to court documents and information presented in court, the offenders allegedly pulled up in a vehicle outside the Rolex store in the 700 block of North Michigan Avenue at 2:34 p.m. Four offenders allegedly exited and went up to the store – three of whom were holding hammers – and began smashing large holes in the windows. The offenders allegedly grabbed watches while a store patron and employees took shelter in a security room and watched the heist unfold on surveillance cameras. Five watches, valued at a total of $170,500, were taken during the spree.
Once the offenders returned to the vehicle, they attempted to elude law enforcement by driving through downtown, fleeing south on Lake Shore Drive and then merging onto Interstate 94. A Chicago Police Department helicopter tracked the vehicle and guided responding officers as the vehicle exited I-94 at 51st Street. The vehicle ultimately crashed into a parked car and the offenders fled on foot before they were apprehended by responding officers. Chicago police recovered four of the five stolen watches.
Assistant State’s Attorney Nick Campbell presented the case in First Appearance Court.
SA Burke thanks the Chicago Police Department for its investigation of this case and response to the incident.
The defendants charged are listed below:
Victory Banks, 33
Will Brown, 21
Aldonte Goodman, 22
Anthony Hampton, 24
Dalvin Johnson, 31
Armon Williams, 18
###
