Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O'Neill Burke Announces Murder Charge Against Chicago Attorney in 2024 South Loop Condo Homicide | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O'Neill Burke Announces Murder Charge Against Chicago Attorney in 2024 South Loop Condo Homicide
January 13, 2026
CHICAGO -
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke today announced that prosecutors have charged Adam Beckerink with First Degree Murder in connection with the killing of his wife, 36-year-old Caitlin Tracey, whose body was discovered at the bottom of a stairwell in their South Loop condominium building in October 2024.
Beckerink, 47, a Chicago lawyer, was arrested by the Chicago Police Department (CPD) following a lengthy and complex investigation that identified him as a suspect in Tracey’s death. An arrest warrant was issued in October 2025 while Beckerink was serving a sentence at the Berrien County Jail in Michigan for domestic violence-related offenses naming Tracey as the victim. According to police, the couple had a documented history of domestic violence incidents in both Chicago and New Buffalo, Michigan, where Tracey also owned a home.
On Monday, CPD detectives transported Beckerink back to Cook County, where prosecutors approved a charge of First Degree Murder against him. Beckerink is currently in custody at the Cook County Jail while he awaits a detention hearing. The next court date is set for Friday, Jan. 16.
“Domestic violence has reached a crisis point in our communities, with domestic violence-related homicides spiking to levels that shock the conscience,”
State’s Attorney Burke said
. “With these charges, we are sending a strong message: violent crimes rooted in domestic abuse will be aggressively prosecuted as we work to bring justice to families and protect survivors. This office will treat domestic violence cases with the urgency, seriousness and resolve they demand.”
Assistant State’s Attorney’s
Stephanie Gersch
and
Kevin Nolan
(Supervisor, Complex Homicides) will handle the prosecution.
State’s Attorney Burke also thanked the CPD for its continued collaboration and thorough investigation of Tracey’s killing, particularly the detectives who worked on the case:
Michael Carroll, John Korolis, Brendan Bruno, Nicholas D’Alessandro and Jaime Torres.
"For more than a year, our Area 3 detectives fought to bring justice in this case for Caitlin Tracey and her loved ones,"
said CPD’s Chief of Detectives Antoinette Ursitti.
"The determination of our detectives to secure charges in this case underscores our commitment to all victims and families who have experienced domestic violence. We will always work to hold the offenders accountable in partnership with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office.”
Since taking office, SA Burke has made combatting domestic violence
a top priority,
dedicating additional resources and enhanced training to prosecutors so they can specialize in such cases. Burke established the
Special Victims Bureau (SVB)
to handle domestic violence crimes, sexual assaults and rapes, and crimes against children and other vulnerable victims. The SVB follows trauma-informed best practices, providing more continuity to survivors navigating the criminal justice system and allowing prosecutors to build skills that are required for managing sensitive dynamics inherent in abuse cases.
# # #
