First-Degree Murder Charges Filed in Fatal Mag Mile Smash-and-Grab Burglary | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
First-Degree Murder Charges Filed in Fatal Mag Mile Smash-and-Grab Burglary
September 13, 2025
CHICAGO
—
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office today announced a range of charges in the highly orchestrated smash-and-grab burglary of the Louis Vuitton Chicago Michigan Avenue store that resulted in the death of an innocent civilian on his way to work. The seven offenders who were arrested have been charged with First-Degree Murder, Burglary, and Retail Theft.
“This case is a heartbreaking example of the threat that these organized retail theft operations pose to the entire community. Not only is the economic vitality of our city compromised by these crimes, but these offenders pose a physical danger to every one of us who live and work here,”
said State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke.
“We will not tolerate it, and we will continue to seek detention and use all of our prosecutorial tools to bring accountability and appropriate charges to those who commit these brazen attacks."
Four of the seven defendants appeared in First Appearance Court today, while the other three remained hospitalized with non-life threating injuries. A judge ordered the four defendants who appeared in court – Harvey Fisher, 26, Alton Jackson, 37, Anthony Hemphill, 22, and Keith Perkins, 19 – to remain detained. The remaining defendants will appear in court once they are released from the hospital.
On Thursday, September 11th at approximately 4:50 a.m., at least a dozen offenders pulled up to the Louis Vuitton Chicago Michigan Avenue store in six stolen vehicles, according to information presented in open court. Multiple videos show a pickup truck backing up and ramming the store’s windows, gaining entry. The theft crew then loaded a large amount of merchandise – valued at nearly $700,000 – into the stolen vehicles and fled, according to statements made in court.
One of the fleeing vehicles was a black Kia allegedly driven by Dejuan Wingard. While driving approximately 77 miles per hour down Michigan Avenue and accelerating through multiple red lights, the Kia collided with a Honda CRV driven by Mark Arceta, a 40-year-old Skokie man who was on his way to work. Victim Arceta was traveling through the intersection on Ohio Street on a green light and was following behind other cars when he was struck. Victim Arceta was traveling to work for his last shift before going on paternity leave when he was killed, and his wife gave birth to a son shortly after the crash, according to news reports.
A second vehicle used in the theft operation, an Infiniti, fled from the police down DuSable Lake Shore Drive. The Infiniti jumped over a concrete barrier, before its tires blew out south of Randolph Street near Millenium Park. Offenders Hemphill and Perkins attempted to flee on foot, but both were apprehended. Two additional occupants of the vehicle are still at large.
The defendants charged with First-Degree Murder, Burglary, and Retail Theft in the smash and grab are identified below:
Darius Bowdry, 30
Harvey Fisher, 26
Alton Jackson, 37
Kellen McMiller, 35
Dejuan Wingard, 30
Anthony Hemphill, 22
Keith Perkins, 19
After his arrest, Perkins also allegedly slipped out of his handcuffs while being escorted to the restroom and fled out of the station before he was taken back into custody. He faces an additional escape charge.
Of the $692,920 in goods stolen from the store, police have recovered approximately $270,000.
