JURY FINDS MAN GUILTY OF KILLING 11-YEAR-OLD JAYDEN PERKINS AS THE BOY PROTECTED HIS MOTHER. | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
In The News
JURY FINDS MAN GUILTY OF KILLING 11-YEAR-OLD JAYDEN PERKINS AS THE BOY PROTECTED HIS MOTHER.
June 06, 2025
Jury finds man guilty of killing 11-year-old Jayden Perkins as the boy protected his mother
By Madeline Buckley // Chicago Tribune
A jury on Thursday evening found a man guilty of first-degree murder in the slaying of 11-year-old Jayden Perkins as he tried to protect his pregnant mother, ending the trial with a quick verdict after the brutal 2024 attack put a spotlight on protections for domestic violence victims and spurred new legislation.
After deliberating for less than 90 minutes, the jury convicted Crosetti Brand, 39, of murder, attempted murder, home invasion and aggravated domestic battery after a more-than-three-week trial that involved more than 30 witnesses and some 300 exhibits.There was no audible reaction from Brand as the verdict was read.
The case went to trial at lightning speed for a county with a criminal court system that often moves sluggishly, going before a jury at the Leighton Criminal Court Building just a little over a year after the March 13, 2024, attack in the 5900 block of North Ravenswood Avenue in Edgewater.
“At the heart of this case is an 11-year-old boy who was murdered and an 11-year-old boy who had a very bright future, who brought a lot of joy to people,” Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke said after the verdict.
Family members wiped away tears after the verdict, then left the courthouse linking arms with each other.
“Justice, justice,” they said as they walked out.
Earlier Thursday, both sides delivered closing arguments to a tense and crowded courtroom which included family members, detectives and Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke, making their final case to the jury.
Brand, who decided to defend himself rather than use a licensed attorney, argued that he was defending himself when Jayden was killed and his mother, Laterria Smith, was seriously injured. For more than four hours on Monday, Brand testified to the jury in a profanity-laced narrative, relaying an alternate version of the attack.
He reiterated his claim of self-defense during his closing arguments, contending to the jury that Smith came at him with a knife.
“It’s not a crime in Illinois to defend yourself,” Brand said.
Prosecutors, though, said that Brand — just a day after he was released from prison — barged into Smith’s apartment after harassing her for weeks, stabbing her before turning the knife on Jayden when the boy tried to intervene. Smith’s 5-year-old son watched it unfold.
“If I can’t have you no one can,” Assistant State’s Attorney Stephanie Gersch during closing arguments. “Those are the terrifying words told to Laterria Smith by this defendant as he invaded her home, shoving open her front door and stabbing her over and over and over.”
At just 11 years old, Jayden Perkins was brave and strong, Gersch said, but he was “absolutely no match” for the grown man who rushed at his mother and stabbed her repeatedly.
The trial and its lead-up took place under emotionally charged conditions, with relatives at times reacting to the often gutting evidence by yelling at Brand, even attempting to lunge at him. Cook County Judge Angela Petrone has repeatedly warned those watching in the gallery against outbursts and has staffed her courtroom with additional security.
As the state on Thursday summed up the brutal details that made up their case, a relative walked out of the courtroom with a loud scream, causing Petrone to tell the jury to ignore the outburst.
On the trial’s first day, May 12, Smith took the stand for hours, telling the jury that Brand, with whom she had recently rekindled a relationship with, harassed and threatened her in the weeks and months leading up to the attack.
When they began seeing each other again, Brand had recently been released from prison after he served time for a November 2015 attack on another woman who had ended a relationship with him, according to court documents.
Smith said she tried to break it off as Brand grew more controlling, even showing up unwanted at her apartment. She contacted the parole board, and he was sent back to prison.
But the Prisoner Review Board ordered Brand’s release. The next day, prosecutors alleged, he forced his way into Smith’s apartment for the fatal attack.
The controversial decision led to the resignation of two members and spurred Gov. JB Pritzker to create a new position on the board.
Last month, lawmakers also advanced a bill that would emphasize domestic violence awareness training for members of the state’s Prisoner Review Board.
“Just four hours after his release from prison, he was back at Laterria’s building waiting and waiting,” Gersch said. “He waited until he knew early on that weekday morning she would need to open that front door … not caring that her children were feet away watching horrified at what this defendant was doing to their mom.”
Gersch addressed Brand’s claim of self-defense, pointing out that Smith had around 15 stab wounds, including in her back, while Brand was not injured, save for a cut from the handcuffs when he was arrested.
“He is the initial aggressor,” she said. “The defendant is the only aggressor in this case.”
Brand, though, argued that Smith’s account was not credible because she left out “vital details” about her relationship with Brand during an interview with a detective. He contended that Smith killed her son while trying to lunge at Brand.
In the gallery, Smith shook her head.
During the state’s rebuttal, Assistant State’s Attorney Danny Hanichak called Brand’s story “delusional,” arguing that it is contradicted by phone records and other evidence.
In Brand’s version of events, he said that he stayed the night at the Smith’s apartment after she invited him there the night before the attack. But Hanichak told the jury that there is no record of any such call. Hanichak also argued that — at the same time Brand claimed Smith invited him over — she was texting her brother asking him to come over because she was afraid of Brand after he was released from prison.
“The defendant lives in some sort of alternate reality,” Hanichak said. “Let’s bring this back to real life.”
Throughout the trial, jurors also heard from multiple detectives who described using surveillance video to track Brand’s journey away from Smith’s apartment, collecting the knife and clothes he tossed away.
Neighbors testified about the horror of coming across the bloody scene, and Smith’s mother told the jury about hearing the attack on the phone when it interrupted a normal morning phone call with her daughter.
After the state rested, Brand’s only witness was himself, spinning a different story for the jury.
Brand said he sought to make money by creating home-made adult videos and hiring himself out as a male escort. He said that Smith became jealous when she saw videos with other women, leading to a confrontation between the two during which he said he defended himself.
“She wound up seeing other sex videos with me with another female,” Brand said. “So we arguing.”
He said Smith stabbed Jayden accidentally when she tried to lunge at Brand.
Brand was combative when cross-examined by Hanichak, telling the prosecutor: “That’s not my testimony, dude.”
“You wasn’t in that house, was you?” Brand said. “I’m not going to let you mix up my testimony.”
