Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office Implements Charging Protocol for Use of Force Incidents Involving Federal Immigration Agents | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office Implements Charging Protocol for Use of Force Incidents Involving Federal Immigration Agents
February 19, 2026
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) has implemented a sweeping protocol to ensure it can move forward with prosecuting ICE agents should a review of the evidence determine that felony criminal charges are warranted. The protocol, which was shared with and evaluated by criminal justice stakeholders, calls for the CCSAO to use all available prosecutorial tools to support law enforcement investigations into the use of force by federal immigration officers.
Months ago, CCSAO’s legal team began the process of drafting the Federal Immigration Enforcement Action Response Protocol to prepare for an unprecedented situation in Cook County: the possibility of bringing state charges against a federal immigration officer for on-duty conduct. State’s Attorney Burke directed her office to conduct a rigorous legal analysis and codify the procedure following the devastation that occurred during the ICE surge in Minneapolis, which resulted in two fatal shootings of civilians by ICE agents.
The CCSAO protocol applies to cases involving a death, shooting, act of violence, or use of force incident related to federal immigration enforcement.
“No one is above the law — including both ICE agents and prosecutors,”
State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke said
. “If a federal law enforcement agent commits a crime, my office will not hesitate to act, in accordance with state law. This protocol establishes clear, legally sound guidelines to ensure we have a responsible and effective path to pursue accountability.”
The CCSAO protocol provides guidance to law enforcement agencies as they gather evidence or seek to preserve sworn testimony related to an investigation. It also clarifies that in these cases, the CCSAO can support, but does not lead, investigations into criminal conduct. The CCSAO will conduct an independent review of evidence that is presented to it by a law enforcement agency to determine whether felony charges are supported.
The Illinois Attorney General’s Office and the Illinois State’s Attorneys Association reviewed the protocol and provided feedback.
“Law enforcement officers are entrusted with extraordinary authority to serve the public and keep our communities safe,”
Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul said
. “When that authority is abused or escalates into unlawful violence, prosecutors must take action if the burden of proof can be met. I am proud to stand with State’s Attorney Burke and fellow prosecutors committed to using every lawful tool available to hold this administration accountable consistent with this protocol.”
The protocol provides clear and legally sound guidelines to law enforcement agencies and prosecutors during different phases of a potential case involving a federal agent, from the investigation to the charging decision. This includes:
How CCSAO can assist law enforcement agencies seeking a Grand Jury subpoena for a victim or witness who could provide relevant evidence or for physical, documentary, and/or video evidence.
The process for presenting an investigation to CCSAO’s Law Enforcement Review Unit (LERU), which will make a charging decision for all felony offenses.
Legal analysis of how the supremacy clause, evidence in possession of the federal government and the potential of removal to federal court may affect the CCSAO’s ability to meet its burden of proof.
The CCSAO shared the protocol with the Illinois State’s Attorneys Association so that it can be used as a model for other prosecutor’s offices conducting similar reviews.
“The Illinois State’s Attorneys Association strongly supports this protocol, which provides critical clarity to law enforcement agencies,”
said Kane County State’s Attorney Jamie Mosser
, president of the Illinois State’s Attorneys Association. “As prosecutors, we have a legal and ethical obligation to carefully assess complex issues — including federal immunity, subpoena authority, and jurisdiction — to determine whether the burden of proof can be met. The protocol will equip prosecutors’ offices to successfully evaluate these factors and make the right charging decision.”
In Cook County, LERU supports investigations and reviews felony cases for charging whenever the accused is a law enforcement officer and the conduct at issue occurred while the officer was on duty. LERU’s work is typically limited to the conduct of local law enforcement officers, while the on-duty conduct of federal law enforcement officers is reviewed by the United States Attorney’s Office.
The Federal Immigration Enforcement Action Response Protocol became effective on Feb. 19, 2026, and was distributed to all division chiefs, Assistant State’s Attorneys, and relevant personnel by State’s Attorney Burke. The protocol will also be shared with state and local law enforcement agencies.
