Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Swears in 37 New Prosecutors from Law School Class of 2025 | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Swears in 37 New Prosecutors from Law School Class of 2025
November 06, 2025
Cook County State’s Attorney
Eileen O’Neill Burke
welcomed 37 new prosecutors to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) during a swearing-in ceremony on Thursday for the Class of 2025, the first cohort of recent law school graduates recruited and trained by her administration. The addition of these new Assistant State’s Attorneys (ASAs) advances a crucial goal for the CCSAO: rebuilding the ranks of skilled prosecutors throughout the county to more efficiently seek justice for victims.
In an address to the Class of 2025 before administering the Oath of Office, SA Burke offered the ASAs advice about what it takes to succeed in their new roles and underscored the importance of the job.
“We are there to represent something bigger than ourselves. We are there to represent the victims, yes. But more than that, we are there to uphold the law, for each and every person in that courtroom — including the defendant. And that’s an awesome responsibility, but it is one that we are going to make sure you are ready for,”
Burke said
.
In addition to SA Burke, First Assistant Craig Engebretson and Chief of Staff Garvin G. Ambrose led the ceremony. The honorable Arthur F. Hill, Jr., retired associate judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County and a former veteran ASA, delivered the keynote address.
The Class of 2025 ASAs joined the CCSAO in August and completed a comprehensive training bootcamp recently designed and implemented by the office. Representing 18 esteemed law schools from across the country, the Class of 2025 achieved a 95% bar passage rate — far exceeding
the statewide pass rate
. All of the new ASAs share a passion for public service and a commitment to upholding the mission of the CCSAO.
Since assuming office in December, Burke has focused on bolstering recruitment for new ASAs and improving the CCSAO training curriculum, so frontline prosecutors are equipped with the best knowledge when they step into the courtroom.
At a recent budget hearing
, SA Burke stressed that her office’s biggest budget priority for fiscal year 2026 is adding more prosecutors to courtrooms across the county so cases can progress through the criminal justice system more efficiently.
