CCSAO Regional Transit Task Force Holds Inaugural Meeting | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
CCSAO Regional Transit Task Force Holds Inaugural Meeting
May 26, 2026
CHICAGO
– Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke today hosted the inaugural meeting of the CCSAO Regional Transit Task Force (RTTF), an initiative that brings together local, state and federal law enforcement agencies and transit partners to strengthen the prosecution of transit-related crime.
“Combating crime on public transportation is a top priority of my administration. Through this new task force, we are increasing collaboration and coordination between our agencies to do all that we can to keep riders and transit workers safe,”
said State’s Attorney Burke
. “In order for our communities to thrive, we need to ensure that public transportation across Cook County is safe and thriving.”
The RTTF will focus on information sharing, collaboration across agencies, and strategies to address crime impacting riders and transit workers. This includes enhancing specialized training opportunities for Assistant State’s Attorneys so they can present the strongest and most thorough cases in court when they are prosecuting offenders for transit-related crime.
State’s Attorney Burke
announced the creation of the RTTF
at a news conference last week.
Representatives from the
Chicago Police Department, Cook County Sheriff’s Office, FBI, ATF, DEA, U.S. Attorney’s Office, CTA, Metra, and Pace
participated in the inaugural meeting. The RTTF will continue to meet monthly to discuss emerging trends and technology that may assist prosecutors with their cases.
“The Drug Enforcement Administration Chicago Field Division is proud to stand alongside our local, county and federal partners to strengthen public safety throughout the Chicago-area transit systems,”
said Todd C. Smith, Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Chicago Field Division.
“Violent crime and drug trafficking activity are often closely connected, placing communities and transit riders at risk. We will leverage DEA’s investigative resources and law enforcement and prosecutorial partnerships on the Regional Transit Task Force to ensure our public transit system is safe for everyone.”
“ATF is proud to work with the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office and our federal, state, and county partners on the Regional Transit Task Force,”
said ATF Chicago Field Division Special Agent in Charge Christopher Amon.
Through this task force and the expansion of Project Safe Neighborhoods to the CTA, we’re combining our resources and expertise towards a safer Chicagoland.”
# # #
