Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Leads National Prosecutorial Training on Reproductive Rights | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Leads National Prosecutorial Training on Reproductive Rights
December 08, 2025
CHICAGO
— Cook County State’s Attorney
Eileen O’Neill Burke
today discussed the mission of the newly formed
Choice Protection Unit
(CPU), a multi-disciplinary team at the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) that is devoted to safeguarding reproductive rights, during a national webinar hosted by the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys. The webinar provided an opportunity for other prosecutor’s offices to learn about the unique role of the CPU and to engage with its leaders. Established as the first standalone unit of its kind in any prosecutor's office nationwide, the CPU is responsible for handling cases that involve threats to abortion access in Cook County.
The webinar
was attended
by more than a dozen representatives from prosecutors' offices across the
country. State’s Attorney Burke outlined her vision for the CPU, discussing how
the unit’s highly trained team will activate to respond to both criminal and
civil acts that seek to impede abortion access in Cook County, target medical
providers, and/or threaten or harm patients seeking care. With more women
traveling to Illinois to seek services following the demise of
Roe v. Wade
,
Burke has maintained
that the CPU
is an urgent and innovative response to protect reproductive health care in
Cook County.
“We will not stand idly by when women
who need reproductive health care are targeted for choosing to exercise what is
a protected right in Cook County,”
State’s Attorney Burke said.
“We must
be ready to respond with the full range of legal tools at our disposal to
ensure that Cook County remains a safe haven for women in need.”
“As prosecutors, we have a
responsibility to uphold the rule of law and protect fundamental rights. Cook
County State's Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke is leading by example when she
created the Choice Protection Unit which represents an innovative and necessary
approach to ensuring that individuals seeking reproductive health care are not
subjected to intimidation or harm,” said
David LaBahn
,
president of
the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys.
“APA is proud to support these
efforts that safeguard access to care and reinforce the principle that justice
always includes protecting personal freedoms.”
The Association of Prosecuting Attorneys
is a national leader in training and technical assistance for prosecutors that
provides guidance, solutions, and strategies to justice-aligned professionals.
APA members include prosecutors’ offices, elected, appointed, and line
prosecutors, justice system professionals, and community partners
Burke launched the CPU in April under
the leadership of Assistant State’s Attorney
Toni Giancola
, the
supervisor of the Choice Protection Unit and a veteran trial attorney at the
Bridgeview Courthouse. The CPU consists of about 30 prosecutors, victim/witness
specialists, investigators, and other staff from every division of the CCSAO
who have volunteered to take on the extra assignment. Assistant State’s
Attorney
Victor Yanz
, a supervisor for the CCSAO’s Public Corruption
Unit who works with the CPU through the office’s Legislative Advisory
Committee, also spoke during the webinar.
During the last legislative session,
CCSAO advocated for a bill that would have classified certain crimes against
reproductive health care facilities as acts of domestic terrorism. Though that
measure ultimately stalled, the CCSAO intends to renew its push for those
protections during the upcoming Illinois General Assembly.
For more information, please
contact the CCSAO communications office at (312) 603-3423, or
email: sao.media@cookcountysao.org
.
###
