DAY ONE PRIORITIES BY THE NUMBERS: 100 DAYS, 115 GUN-RELATED DETENTIONS | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
DAY ONE PRIORITIES BY THE NUMBERS: 100 DAYS, 115 GUN-RELATED DETENTIONS
March 14, 2025
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
March 14, 2025
CONTACT
:
sao.media@cookcountysao.org
DAY ONE PRIORITIES BY THE NUMBERS: 100 DAYS, 115 GUN-RELATED DETENTIONS
Under Burke, prosecutors have sought pre-trial detention for 202 felony firearm cases involving switches, ghost guns, or other modified weapons; judges agreed 115 times, or 58%
Prosecutors also approved 86% of felony retail theft cases – more than 850 in total
Civic, community, and justice leaders applaud CCSAO’s focus and collaboration
CHICAGO
– Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke marked 100 days in office this week by releasing an initial summary of the policy priorities she announced on her first day in office. On her first full day on the job, Burke issued a new detention policy related to the proliferation of machinegun conversion devices (also known as switches), ghost guns, drums and extended magazines. Detainable crimes committed on public transit were also included. In February, Burke announced that this policy would be mirrored for offenders convicted of using or possessing these weapons: prosecutors are now seeking prison time in every one of these cases.
“On the day I was sworn in, I said we cannot allow ourselves to become numb to the shocking numbers of lives shattered by gun violence,”
State’s Attorney Burke said
. “That remains a guiding principle of this office. We will continue seeking pre-trial detention for offenders who use these weapons of war to terrorize our communities, and prison time when we win a conviction. A 58 percent pre-trial detention rate for automatic weapons is frankly too low.”
Pre-Trial Detention Sought
December 2024 - March 2025 YTD
Detention Requests
Detentions Granted
Detention Rate*
Felony & Misdemeanor Domestic Violence
1,128
538
51%
Felony Automatic Firearms**
202
115
58%
Felony crimes on CTA
42
34
85%
Domestic Violence Murder & Attempted Murder
12
12
100%
*Detention Rate: number of detentions granted out of known detention hearing outcomes.
Burke also announced on day one that prosecutors would pursue felony retail theft charges in accordance with state law, when the value of the goods exceeds $300, or when an offender already has a felony shoplifting conviction. For the previous eight years, CCSAO policy held that felonies would only be charged when the value of the goods exceeded $1,000, or if the offender had 10 or more prior convictions. Through the end of February, Cook County prosecutors have approved 857 felony retail charges, or 86 percent.
Felony Retail Theft
December 2024 - February 2025
Felony Review Approved
Felony Review Approval Rate
Retail Theft Charges
857
86%
Please note these are approved
charges
. There could be multiple charges on one case, which is why this doesn’t line up with the cases filed number below.
Cases Filed
Cases Filed
December 2024 - March 2025 YTD
Dec-24
Jan-25
Feb-25
3/1/25 - 3/11/25
Felony & Misdemeanor Domestic Violence (DV)
3,705
1,147
1,150
964
444
Felony DV
271
68
92
73
38
Misdemeanor DV
3,434
1,079
1,058
891
406
Felony Automatic Firearms**
223
63
75
51
34
Felony Retail Theft
773
220
243
234
76
Crimes on CTA
125
33
34
44
14
Domestic Violence Murder & Attempted Murder
12
3
5
3
1
Non-DV Murder & Attempt Murder
141
44
43
40
14
**Felony Automatic Firearms: Felony cases with an arrest report that mentions a weapon and any of these words: machine gun’, extended mag/magazine’, ‘automatic switch’, ‘ghost gun’, ‘drum mag/magazine’.
CIVIC, COMMUNTY AND JUSTICE LEADERS WEIGH IN ON BURKE’S FIRST 100 DAYS
Roseanna Ander, founding Executive Director of the University of Chicago Crime Lab
“We are so grateful to be working with State’s Attorney Burke on Chicago’s most pressing and urgent challenges including gun violence and domestic violence. The University of Chicago Crime Lab’s work showed that shootings in Chicago were increasing in their lethality, likely driven by the use of after-market machine gun conversion devices and high-capacity magazines.  Literally on day one in the office she announced a new policy to address this threat to our community’s safety.  And importantly she has committed to measuring the impact of this new policy.  It is still vanishingly rare to find public sector leaders who are willing to be data driven and to measure the impact of their initiatives to make sure they are doing what is best for the communities they serve.”
Elzie Higginbottom, East Lake Management and Development Corp. President and CEO
“I am a businessman and a builder, so I appreciate a solid foundation. Eileen Burke's initial days in office have shown exactly that, and I've been both impressed and heartened. She and her team have demonstrated a clear sense of purpose and followed up with concrete action. Eileen is bringing new energy and a willingness to listen to this office, and the business community appreciates the dialogue. Those of us who champion Chicago and want this City to thrive have a friend and fellow traveler in Eileen Burke.”
Joe Ferguson, The Civic Federation President
“What has most impressed the civic and business leaders I talk to is how thoughtful and deliberative Eileen and her team have been since taking the reins in December. While she no doubt carries a sense of urgency about implementing the clear vision for what she wants for the office, Eileen is proceeding in a measured and analytical way that inspires confidence and speaks to a longer-term strategy and stability that is needed. Chicago's violent crime challenges are complex. The early efforts from Eileen and her team signal a longer-term strategy and stability that are welcome additions to this effort.”
“Pastor Phil” Jackson, Firehouse Community Arts Center CEO and Chicago Park District Commissioner
“I am grateful to serve alongside Eileen O’Neill Burke, who is passionate about discovering innovative ways to collaborate with others and inspire hope in our youth within the juvenile system.”
Rob Karr, Illinois Retail Merchants Association President and CEO
“Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke has proven early in her first term to be a strong ally of the business community. For years, shop owners felt unheard by prosecutors as they faced increasingly violent acts of organized retail crime. By holding criminals accountable for felony retail theft as set by state statue, she has taken the important first steps of providing safety and stability needed for businesses to invest in their neighbors and neighborhoods. Organized retail crime is not victimless – it funds drugs, gangs and human trafficking, while threatening residents and robbing our communities of tax dollars needed to fund vital programs. It will take many years to reverse the impacts of past practices, and we look forward to continued partnership to ensure businesses and residents alike can thrive.”
Director Brendan Kelly, Illinois State Police
“Our partnership with the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office is not just about sharing information and good communication. Our partnership is about action, and we are grateful to see increasing results.”
Superintendent Larry Snelling, Chicago Police Department
“Our partnership with State's Attorney Burke and her office is rooted in a shared mission of seeking justice for victims of crimes and their families. Throughout the past 100 days, we have built a strong foundation of collaboration that is focused on strengthening gun crime enforcement and holding criminal offenders accountable.”
# # #
