Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office Prepared To Protect Voting Access From ICE Interference | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office Prepared To Protect Voting Access From ICE Interference
March 17, 2026
CHICAGO —
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) will help monitor Election Day activity to ensure that voters can cast their ballots free from intimidation, electioneering, interference, or other barriers that could impede their right to vote, such as the presence of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents.
Each Election Day, the CCSAO supports voting access by working alongside the Cook County Clerk, the Cook County Board of Elections, and the Illinois Attorney General’s Office to safeguard the public’s ability to exercise their right to vote. This year, additional plans are underway to protect voting access if ICE agents appear at polling sites in Cook County and deter voters from making their selections.
CCSAO has created an email and phone hotline for the public and law enforcement to report election-related criminal activity, including actions that interfere with the right to vote, such as the presence of ICE agents at polling sites. Throughout Election Day, CCSAO will monitor the hotlines and coordinate with local law enforcement, who will respond to polling sites as appropriate. If ICE is reported to be at a polling site, CCSAO will send staff to observe and document any alleged violations.
In addition, pursuant to statute, CCSAO serves as legal counsel to the Cook County Clerk. In that capacity, CCSAO is prepared to pursue any available legal remedies in court on behalf of the Clerk to protect voting access, including responding to situations involving the presence of ICE agents. In the past, CCSAO has sought temporary restraining orders to keep polling locations open for extended time if technical issues prevented voters from casting ballots before sites were set to close.
Members of the public who wish to report suspected criminal conduct at a polling place may do so at the following:
Election Complaint Phone Hotline:
(773) 674-2728
Election Complaint Email Hotline:
sao.electionfraud@cookcountysao.org
For more information, please contact the CCSAO communications office at (312) 603-3423, or email:
sao.media@cookcountysao.org
.
