COOK COUNTY STATE’S ATTORNEY BURKE ISSUES TRANSITION REPORT | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
COOK COUNTY STATE’S ATTORNEY BURKE ISSUES TRANSITION REPORT
June 04, 2025
CONTACT
:
sao.media@cookcountysao.org
Comprehensive Report Recommends Increased Collaboration with Law Enforcement; Greater Care and Focus on Victims and Witnesses; Technology Upgrades
CHICAGO
– Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke marked six months in office by issuing her administration’s transition report, a collaborative and comprehensive effort designed to assess the current state of the office and make tangible recommendations to improve the wider criminal justice system in Cook County. The final product serves as a compass to chart a path forward, focusing on data-driven and community-informed strategies, to ensure the office achieves its core mission of promoting safety, justice and accountability for the residents of Cook County. The full transition report can be read
HERE
.
The transition committee was chaired by Chicago Alderman Pat Dowell (3rd); Community Commission for Public Safety and Accountability President Anthony Driver; and Chicago CRED founder and former U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan; and brought together a diverse range of perspectives and expertise on the issues facing the office. The broad coalition of stakeholders shared the common goal of making the criminal justice system work more effectively for people at various touchpoints: victims and witnesses who need more support and services while navigating traumatic events; law enforcement officers whose investigations and testimony are critical to successful prosecutions; and defendants who are entitled to a fair day in court. None of this can be accomplished without a strong collaborative relationship with law enforcement and investment in resources, from both public and private partners, that enable front-line prosecutors to pursue justice with the highest degree of professionalism and training.
“Community safety requires the community’s wisdom, and as a result, we have assembled a phenomenal, diverse team of experts to provide us with guidance, advice, and concrete recommendations on how we can better fulfill our responsibilities,”
State’s Attorney Burke said
. “We can create a justice system that is more responsive, more inclusive, and more effective for everyone, and this report serves as a blueprint. I am thrilled to share it and eternally grateful for the transition committee’s commitment to this effort.”
The CCSAO transition report reflects nine targeted initiatives identified by Burke that will improve public safety, ensure justice, and build community trust. Transition team members met in designated subcommittees since last December to collaborate, deliberate, and ultimately provide recommendations in the following priority areas:
Gun Violence Reduction
Domestic Violence, Hate Crimes, and Special Victims
Conviction Integrity
Juvenile Diversion
Choice Protection
Public Corruption
Diversion, Addiction, and Mental Health
Training and Professional Development
Public Policy
Co-chairs Dowell, Driver, and Duncan lauded State Attorney Burke’s proactive leadership in assembling an expansive team of subject matter experts and identifying priorities that will make a difference in people's lives.  “The goals set for her team are concrete and necessary – and have the potential to catapult public safety throughout Cook County to the next level. We are energized by the insight captured in each of the Subcommittee Reports in the following pages,” they wrote in an opening letter for the report.
The veteran civic leaders also issued a call to action: “We are acutely aware that implementing the recommendations provided and achieving the goals articulated will not be easy and will require political will — and additional resources. The CCSAO must make significant and costly investments in technological tools, equipment, and systems to promote transparency and improve performance for all criminal justice stakeholders. Investment in technology will also ensure that cases do not linger in the criminal system for years.”
Since taking office on December 2, 2024, Burke has swiftly implemented a series of bold policy changes and structural reforms aimed at reshaping the office and focusing on violent crimes that destroy lives, devastate communities, and shatter the perception of security across the Chicagoland area. On her first day on the job, Burke issued a new detention policy related to the proliferation of machine gun conversion devices (also known as switches), ghost guns, drums, and extended magazines. In February, Burke announced that this policy would be mirrored for offenders convicted of using or possessing these weapons: prosecutors are now seeking prison time in every one of these cases. She also instructed prosecutors to seek detention for offenders charged with felony crimes on public transit who have abused the shared services that many Cook County residents rely on.
Burke also immediately announced that prosecutors would pursue felony retail theft charges in accordance with state law when the value of the goods exceeds $300, or when an offender already has a felony shoplifting conviction. For the previous eight years, CCSAO policy held that felony charges would be brought only when the value of the goods exceeded $1,000, or if the offender had 10 or more prior convictions, which was not consistent with the felony retail theft statute.
On the priority of guns, the office launched a successful Felony Review Bypass pilot program that streamlines the charging process for lower-level felony gun cases, easing a significant strain on police and prosecutor resources across Chicago. The pilot was initially launched in January in the CPD’s 007th District (Englewood) and expanded in April to the CPD’s 005th Police District (Calumet), and enables responding police officers, in consultation with their supervisors, to file certain low-level nonviolent felony gun possession charges directly instead of waiting for CCSAO felony review approval, which can sometimes take hours. Thus far, every single bypass case has withstood legal scrutiny via either a preliminary hearing or grand jury indictment, and future expansion is being planned.
This past weekend,
the General Assembly also signed off on two of Burke’s legislative priorities:
a bill that ensures that first-time, non-violent felony gun possession offenders can receive a FOID card upon successful completion of a diversion program – thus eliminating a roadblock for otherwise law-abiding citizens to come into compliance with the law, along with legislation that ensures sensitivity to victims of sexual abuse and expands the statute of limitations on certain crimes.
Shootings and homicides in Chicago are trending to their lowest numbers in a decade,
including the fewest incidents in April since 1962
, and the least gun violence over Memorial Day weekend in at least 16 years.
According to Chicago Police Department statistics
, shooting incidents from Jan 1, 2025, through June 1 dropped 34% compared to the same period in 2024, and homicides declined by 27%. Robberies and carjackings have also decreased.
“One shooting is one too many, and there is still so much work to do before Chicagoans have the sense of safety and well-being, we all want and deserve,”
Burke said
. “We are seeing real, unmistakable progress, however, and that is a testament to what can happen when law enforcement, prosecutors and all stakeholders work collaboratively and creatively to solve problems. Now is the time to dig deeper and keep moving forward.”
# # #
