Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Issues One-Year Progress Report | Cook County State's Attorney
Skip to main content
Press Release
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke Issues One-Year Progress Report
December 02, 2025
CHICAGO —
Cook County State’s Attorney Eileen O’Neill Burke marked one year in office today by issuing a progress report as well as laying out a vision for how her reinvigorated office can continue building on the momentum of 2025’s public safety gains. At a City Club of Chicago luncheon, Burke provided an update on how her office has tackled the
Day One Priorities
she announced upon taking the oath of office, and how these measures have had a significant, positive impact on the crime fight in Cook County. The progress report can be viewed/downloaded
HERE
.
“From Day One, we have had a relentless focus on guns – particularly those modified with machinegun conversion devices or switches – which have been terrorizing our neighborhoods for far too long,” Burke said. “These weapons of war are major drivers of violence, and holding those who use them accountable, coupled with renewed collaboration with law enforcement, has had an unmistakable impact on the progress we’re seeing in the crime fight. While we are nowhere near satisfied, and won’t be until every resident of Cook County feels safe in their own community, we are greatly encouraged by the progress we’re seeing.”
On Day One, Burke implemented a policy requiring prosecutors to seek pre-trial detention for any detainable felony where an offender possesses an illegally modified firearm, including an MCD/switch or extended magazine. Prosecutors now also seek prison time when an offender is convicted of these serious gun crimes. Demonstrating a commitment to collaboration at every level to go after illegal guns, the CCSAO has also rejoined the Crime Gun Intelligence Center (CGIC), formed a Regional Gun Crimes Task Force that includes the collar counties and stretches into Indiana, and hosted a summit on MCD’s that attracted law enforcement from across the country.
Burke also contextualized the pre-trial detention issue by presenting data showing that while prosecutors in her administration sought detention at roughly the same rate as the previous administration for a range of violent crimes, detention was granted 10% more often in 2025. The increase was driven in large part by machinegun charges (Burke’s administration sought detention in 97% of cases, and it was granted in 76%, whereas the previous administration sought detention in 78% of cases, and it was granted 41% of the time); and aggravated domestic battery charges (Burke 96% requested/85% approved; Foxx 84% requested/61% approved).
“The data shows it’s not a matter of seeking detention blindly or broadly, it’s a matter of identifying priority areas and doing our job better,” Burke said. “Judges ultimately decide whether to detain someone awaiting trial based on whether that person is a threat to another person or the community at large. We take our responsibility to present the fullest possible picture of an offender’s threat level incredibly seriously.”
During her City Club appearance, Burke also highlighted her office’s priority of combating domestic violence and protecting survivors. Burke has publicly and repeatedly referred to the alarming spike in domestic violence killings as a crisis and has added resources — including additional supervisors, ASA’s, and investigators — so prosecutors at first appearance court are equipped to make a compelling argument for pretrial detention for all offenders accused of felony domestic battery. Burke established a new bureau, the Special Victims Bureau (SVB), to handle sensitive cases involving domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, hate crimes, and other violent crimes involving vulnerable victim populations, including children, seniors, and disabled individuals. The SVB follows trauma-informed best practices and utilizes a vertical prosecution model to provide continuity as victims see their case progress through the court system.
Burke has also established the new Multi-Jurisdiction Bureau (MJB) to reflect the growing sophistication of high-impact crime that crosses geographic boundaries, as well as the need to collaborate with law enforcement agencies beyond Cook County. The MJB prosecutes complex crimes involving firearms, narcotics, fraud, public corruption, and human trafficking and works with federal, state, and local law enforcement partners to leverage shared intelligence and resources.
As part of her mandate to realign the CCSAO’s mission and resources, Burke introduced a new Expedited Felony Review (EFR) charging standard that allows police and prosecutors to prioritize their responses to the most serious threats to public safety. The EFR standard applies to three frequently-charged gun possession offenses and was developed in collaboration with the Chicago Police Department during a successful pilot program. By equipping highly trained police officers to process the initial charges in straightforward arrests such as these, officers can get back on the street more quickly to continue responding to calls for services, and prosecutors in the office’s Felony Review Unit can focus on reviewing evidence and charging criteria for violent crime.
Enhancing training for all prosecutors has also been a major focus for Burke. She has implemented robust mandatory office-wide training, including a new curriculum and orientation bootcamp for incoming attorneys.
Burke also discussed several ways she has reshaped the office over the past year to be more efficient and effective, as well as a fruitful first budget season that will allow the office to modernize and better align operations with its priorities in the years ahead.
