Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
(Houston, TX) - Today, Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare released the following statement following the dismissal of charges against police officers linked to the Jan. 2019 Harding Street raid.
Today, Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare released the following statement following the dismissal of charges against police officers linked to the Jan. 2019 Harding Street raid.
“Today the Harris County District Attorney’s Office dismissed 17 charges against 8 Houston Police Department officers associated with the Harding Street raid,” said Teare. “The decision was made after a thorough review of the facts clearly demonstrated that there was insufficient evidence to prove that any of these crimes were committed beyond a reasonable doubt.
Nothing about these dismissals changes the fact that the Harding Street raid should have never happened. As the chief law enforcement officer of Harris County, I want people to know that we remain steadfast in our commitment to uncovering and addressing corruption wherever it may be found – but we will always be guided by the facts, not politics.
These charges were kept on life-support by the previous District Attorney to generate headlines, damaging the reputations of the officers and the Houston Police Department, and they inevitably fell apart under the weight of the truth. As District Attorney, I am determined to pursue real justice instead of using the lives of innocent public servants to score political points.
These officers and their families have endured four years of hardship, forced to live under a cloud of suspicion and accusations of corruption. Despite the lack of evidence, they were subjected to an investigation designed to wrongfully link them to the very real, heinous crimes committed by Gerald Goines.”
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Mar 06, 2025
Harris County Grand Jury Indicts 17-Year-Old for Terrorism
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Apr 14, 2025
DA Office to Host Free Expunction Legal Clinic and Job Fair for Houstonians
