Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
Law Enforcement Agencies Break Up Auto-Theft Operation Exploiting Illegal Access to DMV Records
(Houston, TX) - Today, the Harris County District Attorney’s Office announced that it has filed five felony charges against a local Texas Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) employee and a co-conspirator involved in a car title laundering scheme. The charges stem from an ongoing joint investigation conducted by the Harris County Sheriff’s Office, the Texas Department of Public Safety, and the Harris County District Attorney’s Public Integrity Unit.
On July 9, 2025, DMV employee Carlisha Haywood was charged with Bribery and two counts of Tampering with a Government Record. Co-conspirator Xavier Goodwin Washington was also charged with two counts of Tampering with a Government Record.All charges are second degree felonies punishable with up to 2-20 years in prison and a $10,000 fine.
During the investigation, law enforcement officials uncovered an auto theft operation in which individuals would steal vehicles and then sell the stolen vehicles to a good-faith purchaser. Prior to making the sale, the conspirators would swap the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) of the stolen vehicle with a “clean” VIN from a different vehicle of the same make and model. In this case, Goodwin Washington would bribe Haywood and exploit her ability to access and print official records as a DMV employee to obtain certified copies of car titles in order to commit the fraudulent sale. The investigation remains ongoing.
“The people of Harris County deserve to trust that their public institutions serve them—and not criminal organizations that prey on innocent people,” said Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare. “Too many Houstonians have been victimized by car theft and fraud. I’m deeply grateful to the law enforcement officers who led this investigation and operation. They have our full support as we continue to root out public corruption with integrity, determination and urgency.”
An initial court date for both Defendents is scheduled for July 11 at 9 a.m. in the 496
th
Criminal Court.
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Mar 06, 2025
Harris County Grand Jury Indicts 17-Year-Old for Terrorism
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Feb 13, 2025
Statement from Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare on Dismissal of Charges Against Houston Police Department Officers Linked to Harding Street Raid
