Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
Defendants Were Arrested in Mexico in April, Returned to Houston Today
(Houston, TX) - Today, Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare announced the successful arrests and extradition from Mexico of two men who have been charged with multiple counts of child sex abuse against two minors.
Francisco Castillo Lopez, 42, is the father of both victims and has been charged with ten felonies: including five counts of indecency with a child, three counts of aggravated sex assault of a child, and two counts of continuous sex abuse of a child. Francisco Castillo Ortiz, 62, is the grandfather of both victims and has been charged with aggravated sex assault of a child and indecency with a child. Both men are U.S. citizens and were charged with these offenses in 2021 and 2023.
“If you commit heinous crimes like this in Harris County, know this: we will bring you to justice—no matter where you run,” said Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare. “Our prosecutors and Fugitive Apprehension Unit are second to none, and I couldn’t be prouder of their tireless work in starting to bring these defendants to justice. Most importantly, our thoughts remain with the two girls who endured unimaginable abuse. This case has always been about them, and we are committed to delivering the justice they deserve. I also want to thank the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Marshals Service Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force, and the Government of Mexico for their vital support and cooperation throughout this process.”
Since 2022, the Harris County District Attorney's Fugitive Apprehension Unit has been working in tandem with the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of International Affairs and the U.S. Marshals Service to secure their arrests and extraditions from Mexico to the United States. They were arrested in April of this year and are now in custody of local law enforcement in Houston. Their cases will be heard in the 262nd District Court.
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Mar 06, 2025
Harris County Grand Jury Indicts 17-Year-Old for Terrorism
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Feb 13, 2025
Statement from Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare on Dismissal of Charges Against Houston Police Department Officers Linked to Harding Street Raid
