Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
Man Arrested in Nebraska After Nearly 36 Years on the Run
(Houston, TX) - Today, Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare announced that
Floyd William Parrott
, 64, has been charged with Capital Murder in connection to the 1990 killings of
Cheryl Henry
, 22, and
Andy Atkinson
, 21.
This cold case, known as the “Lovers’ Lane Murders,” has remained unsolved for nearly 36 years. Today, the Harris County District Attorney’s Office takes a significant step in the ongoing pursuit of justice for Cheryl, Andy, and their families.
“One of Houston’s most haunting and infamous cold cases has weighed on the Henry and Atkinson families, as well as our community for more than three decades,” District Attorney
Sean Teare
said. “Our prosecutors, working with the HPD and FBI, have pursued this investigation with relentless and dogged determination. They have worked hundreds of leads, facing dead ends and plenty of frustration. But, they never gave up on Cheryl and Andy. Thank you to all investigators who have touched this case. Your perseverance has delivered something two families long deserved: progress and hope. Today is a good day.”
Officers with the Houston Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Parrot in Lincoln, Nebraska on Wednesday, March 25.
HCDAO, HPD, and FBI Houston are working to coordinate a joint press conference to answer questions.
At this time, we will not be commenting further on the case.
We will update news media as soon as details of the press conference are confirmed.
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Mar 06, 2025
Harris County Grand Jury Indicts 17-Year-Old for Terrorism
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Feb 13, 2025
Statement from Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare on Dismissal of Charges Against Houston Police Department Officers Linked to Harding Street Raid
