Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
Today, a Harris County grand jury returned an indictment charging 17-year-old Laith Adil Shehzad with terrorism. Shehzad is being charged with a felony punishable by a sentence of no less than 15 years to life.
(Houston, TX) - Today, a Harris County grand jury returned an indictment charging 17-year-old Laith Adil Shehzad with terrorism. Shehzad is being charged with a felony punishable by a sentence of no less than 15 years to life.
A Harris grand jury returned the indictment under a
new state law
that created a criminal offense of terrorism. This is the first time someone has been charged with terrorism under this statute in Harris County. The law applies to a person who commits or conspires to commit an array of existing offenses and commits or conspires to commit the offense with the intent to intimidate or coerce the public or a substantial group of the public. The offense is punishable by one penalty category higher than the most serious offense that was committed or conspired to be committed.
"I’m incredibly grateful to our dedicated law enforcement partners for taking action to prevent what could have been a tragic act of mass violence against innocent people in Harris County,” said Sean Teare, Harris County District Attorney. “Their vigilance and commitment to public safety have undoubtedly saved lives, and we are grateful for their unwavering efforts to protect our communities. The people of Harris County can rest assured that our prosecutors will pursue this case with the urgency and integrity it deserves. I want to thank the prosecutors in our Organized Crime Division for their dedication to this case and express my gratitude to the grand jurors for their service."
An indictment is merely an allegation. All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Feb 13, 2025
Statement from Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare on Dismissal of Charges Against Houston Police Department Officers Linked to Harding Street Raid
Posted on: Apr 14, 2025
DA Office to Host Free Expunction Legal Clinic and Job Fair for Houstonians
