Harris County - District Attorney's Office > Newsroom > News Releases
Skip to main content
Home
About Us
Justice & Safety
Survivors & Victims
Alternatives to Prosecution
Community Engagement
Careers
Newsroom
Resources
Research Center
Contact Us
Find your Case
Contact Us
1201 Franklin, Suite 600
Houston, Texas
713-274-5800
[email protected]
More News
Mar 26, 2026
Harris County District Attorney’s Office Files Capital Murder Charge in Connection to 1990 “Lovers’ Lane” Cold Case
Mar 17, 2026
Harris County Criminal Case Backlog Eliminated
Sep 26, 2025
Man Accused of Murder Dies During Court Appearance
Aug 15, 2025
Man Charged with Murder Successfully Extradited to Houston from El Salvador
Aug 12, 2025
Harris County District Attorney Announces Successful Extradition of Father/Son Duo Charged with Child Sex Abuse
News Releases
Services Will Help Eligible Residents Clear Barriers to Employment, Housing, and Education; Help Job-Seekers Find Work
On Sat April 19th, the Harris County District Attorney’s office will host a free expunction clinic and job fair in Alief from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. The Fair will be held at the Alief Community Center located at 11903 Bellaire Blvd and will feature representatives from a wide array of local organizations offering legal support and employment opportunities.
The initiative is being hosted in partnership with Houston City Council District F Member Tiffany Thomas, Harris County Precinct 4 Commissioner Lesley Briones, The Beacon Law, Lone Star Legal Aid, The South Texas College of Law Randall O. Sorrels Legal Clinic, and Texas Southern University’s Earl Carl Institute.
Assistance will be available to eligible residents seeking to seal a previous criminal record, which can enhance one's chances of finding a job.  There will also be information on how to search for housing, and community services available to help get back on track.
"If we truly believe in breaking the cycle of recidivism, we have a responsibility to create pathways for those who have served their time to reenter society with dignity," said Teare. "A job isn’t just a paycheck—it’s stability, it’s purpose, and it’s the foundation for a better future. When we give people who deserve a second chance the opportunity to rebuild their lives, we make our entire community safer, stronger, and more prosperous."
Participants seeking support for expunction of previous criminal records are encouraged to check their eligibility at
www.clearyourrecordharriscounty.org
prior to attending. Assistance on matters dealing with immigration, child support, and landlord/tenant relations will also be available.
To download a publicity flier for the event
click here
.
Back
News Releases
View All
Posted on: Mar 06, 2025
Harris County Grand Jury Indicts 17-Year-Old for Terrorism
Posted on: Jan 01, 2025
District Attorney Sean Teare Files Motion to Recuse Himself from Cases Related to Lina Hidalgo’s Staff
Posted on: Feb 13, 2025
Statement from Harris County District Attorney Sean Teare on Dismissal of Charges Against Houston Police Department Officers Linked to Harding Street Raid
