DA Announces Expanded Binational Partnership to Strengthen Victim Services Across the Border - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Announces Expanded Binational Partnership to Strengthen Victim Services...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced the renewal and expansion of a binational partnership today, strengthening collaboration between the Attorney General of the State of Baja California, the Baja California Justice Center for Women, and the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office
Family Justice Centers — One Safe Place
North in San Marcos and One Safe Place South in National City.
[WATCH ANNOUNCEMENT HERE]
DA Announces Expanded Binational Partnership to Strengthen Victim Services Across the Border.
The updated Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), built upon an existing historical cross-border partnership that began on August 30, 2024, is expanding services and coordination to now include both Family Justice Center locations. One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center in National City, which opened in October 2025, was incorporated into the agreement to further extend access to comprehensive victim services throughout the region.
“Abusers, traffickers or anyone who exploits and harms victims do not recognize borders,” DA Stephan said. “With thousands of people traveling between San Diego and Tijuana each day for work, school, and family, we know victimization can happen on either side of the border—and our response must be just as seamless. This renewed partnership strengthens our binational network of support, ensuring victims can access critical services, protection, and justice wherever they are. We are committed to making sure no one is left without help because of geography or language, and that every person who comes to One Safe Place is met with culturally responsive care focused on safety, healing, and justice.”
Since opening in July 2022, One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center in San Marco
s
and then in October 2025, One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center in National City, the DA’s two family justice centers have served over 13,000 victims and survivors by providing comprehensive support services under one roof. Both Family Justice Centers offer trauma-informed, wraparound services under one roof for victims of child abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, elder abuse, hate crimes, and other forms of victimization, in collaboration with more than 100 community partners. This includes agencies like the Attorney General of the State of Baja California and the State of Baja California Justice Center for Women, created to prevent violence against women and girls by providing legal, psychological and social services.
The renewed and expanded partnership enhances cross-border coordination, allowing for seamless referrals between agencies and reducing barriers for victims who previously had to cross the border—often facing long wait times—to receive services. The collaboration ensures victims can receive support in the location where they live, work, or feel safe.
Baja California Attorney General Maria Elena Andrade Ramírez emphasized that the continued partnership strengthens binational efforts to provide comprehensive, compassionate care to victims while advancing justice across borders.
“This international cooperation reflects our shared commitment to joining forces across borders to protect those who need it most,” said Baja California Attorney General Maria Elena Andrade Ramírez. “Renewing and expanding this agreement will strengthen referral processes, specialized support, and multidisciplinary services, while also reducing the barriers that have historically limited access to legal, psychological, and social services. Through this binational support network, we aim to provide immediate, gender-responsive assistance while always prioritizing the safety, stability, and well-being of families affected by violent environments.”
Magdalena Bautista, Director of the Baja California Justice Center for Women (CEJUM), noted that expanding the agreement to include both Family Justice Centers marked an important step in increasing access to protection and services, reinforcing the shared commitment to ensuring no victim is left without support.
“This agreement reaffirms the strength of binational and interinstitutional collaboration as a means to expand protection, support, and effective access to justice for women and their families,” Director of the Baja California Justice Center for Women Magdalena Bautista said. “At CEJUM, we reaffirm our commitment to act with sensitivity, professionalism, and compassion in supporting those who need it most, and we are backed by Governor Marina del Pilar Ávila Olmeda in consolidating a public policy focused on women and justice with a gender perspective. The true strength of this alliance lies in turning binational coordination into real protection and concrete results for women and their families.”
In a separate ceremony on March 26, 2026, the DA’s Office renewed a similar agreement with the Mexican Consulate, which continues to enhance outreach and prevention efforts, including participation in the monthly “Cafecito Con La Comunidad” events held at One Safe Place. These events connect the community with resources, information, and support services.
“Violence against women knows no borders,” said Ambassador Alicia G. Kerber-Palma, Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego. We celebrate this binational cooperative effort that strengthens coordination and support networks to provide greater protection and access to justice for women in our border region. From the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego, we reaffirm our commitment to continue supporting initiatives that promote the dignity, safety, and well-being of our communities.”
One Safe Place
: The North County Family Justice Center is located at 1050 Los Vallecitos Blvd., San Marcos, CA 92069.  The center is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the
first
Saturday of the month from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.
One Safe Place
: The South County Family Justice Center is located at 401 Mile of Cars Way, National City, CA 91950. The center is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the
second
Saturday of the month from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.
The State Baja California Justice Center for Women
is located at Avenida Moctezuma #1, Colonia Residencial de Cortez, C.P. 22190 Tijuana, Baja California, with hours of operation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
[
WATCH a video about One Safe Place: The San Diego County Family Justice Centers, here.
]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/05/05-15-26-OSP-South-MOU-scaled-e1778876517239.jpg
1050
1557
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-05-15 13:22:25
2026-05-15 13:22:25
DA Announces Expanded Binational Partnership to Strengthen Victim Services Across the Border
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Collaborative; Sign MOU in Sacramento
Link to: Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Collaborative; Sign MOU in Sacramento
Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons...
Link to: Man Sentenced for Brutal 2023 Murder and Series of Violent Crimes in El Cajon
Link to: Man Sentenced for Brutal 2023 Murder and Series of Violent Crimes in El Cajon
Man Sentenced for Brutal 2023 Murder and Series of Violent Crimes in El Caj...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
