Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Shanish Aloor
, who has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for more than 17 years. He first joined our office as a Legal Intern, then a Graduate Law Clerk and finally as a Deputy DA. He is currently the team leader for the DA’s
Workplace Justice Unit
, which investigates and prosecutes crimes where workers are victimized including wage theft and labor trafficking. When he is not busy working, Shanish enjoys reading biographies of famous historical figures, especially those involved in WWII and the Civil War.
Read more about what inspired him to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in public service?
“When I was in college a close family member was murdered. This crime shook me to my core and made me want to empower victims. I went to law school with the idea of working in the criminal justice system to make a difference. As an intern with the DA’s Office, I saw all the positive impacts we could have on the community. “
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“AAPI month is important because it acknowledges a group that has been historically invisible while highlighting its powerful emergence. Minority voices, including those of AAPI, seek not just to uphold the law, but to make it more just, human and reflective of the America that we all deserve. AAPI month gives us a platform to reach out to future leaders to inspire them to strive to make this a ‘more perfect union’.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Shanish-Aloor-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-12 09:30:58
2025-05-14 16:28:43
Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing Students
Link to: Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing Students
Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing Student...
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
