Meet Deputy DA Taylor Morrison - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Taylor Morrison
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Taylor Morrison
, who has been with the DA’s Office for the past 10 years. She joined us in 2015 as a Certified Legal Intern, progressed to a Graduate Law Clerk, and then was hired officially as a Deputy DA in 2018. Taylor is currently assigned to the Economic Crimes Division where she practices a niche area of the law – civil asset forfeiture. As the sole DDA assigned to the unit, she manages over 150 cases that are in active civil litigation where she handles all aspects of civil filings and civil discovery. She also trains local law enforcement officers and other District Attorney offices on the intricacies of asset forfeiture, helping them implement it effectively in their jurisdictions.
Taylor is also the incoming President of the California Western School of Law Alumni Board, making history as the first Black woman to hold the position in the school’s 100-year history. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“I am the daughter and granddaughter of public servants, the sister of a corrections officer, and the wife of a police officer. My path to public service was deeply influenced by my upbringing and values. I chose a career in prosecution because I wanted to help enforce the law but do so with compassion.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“As a career prosecutor and lifelong public servant, I see this month as not just a celebration, but a call to action—a reminder to inspire myself and others to make a meaningful impact on Black History in real time, through service and advocacy.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Black-History-Month-DAnews-Taylor-Morrison.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-28 09:30:04
2025-02-27 17:11:38
Meet Deputy DA Taylor Morrison
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Frederick Washington
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Frederick Washington
Meet Deputy DA Frederick Washington
Link to: DA Kicks Off National Consumer Protection Week with Renewed Commitment to Fighting Fraud
Link to: DA Kicks Off National Consumer Protection Week with Renewed Commitment to Fighting Fraud
DA Kicks Off National Consumer Protection Week with Renewed Commitment to Fighting...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
