Sex Offender Charged with Double Murder - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Sex Offender Charged with Double Murder
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced multiple criminal charges today against Marco Antonio Valadez, 47, in connection with a December 4 shooting that killed Raquel Pitsenburger, 55, and Marco Antonio Valadez, Jr., 36. Valadez has been charged with two counts of murder and sex abuse charges, stemming from a fatal confrontation in which he was trying to silence family members who were potential witnesses following the disclosure of his sex crimes.
Valadez has also been charged with two felony sexual assault charges for acts committed against Valadez’s 18-year-old family member two days prior to the murders. The two murder charges carry the special circumstances of killing a witness, multiple homicides and allegations of personal discharge of a firearm causing death and committing the offense while out on bail. The sex abuse charges carry “one strike” and “habitual sex offender” allegations for Valadez’s prior conviction for forcible rape in 1998. He also has multiple serious prior felony prior convictions alleged as part of the charges.
“We’re committed to delivering justice for this family in what is one of the most disturbing crimes committed in San Diego County in 2021.” DA Stephan said. “Thanks to the coordination and dedication of our law enforcement partners, this dangerous criminal was captured in Mexico and returned to San Diego to be held accountable.”
San Diego Sheriff’s Department Homicide and Family Protection Division detectives coordinated the murder investigation, and Valadez was arrested in Mexico and handed over to U.S. authorities on December 16.
Valadez pleaded not guilty in San Diego Superior Court today and is being held without bail. The murder charges with the alleged special circumstances make Valadez eligible for the death penalty or life in prison without the possibility of parole. His next court date is March 28 for a status hearing.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/marky-valadez.jpg
500
750
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2022-01-03 17:14:09
2022-01-06 17:17:41
Sex Offender Charged with Double Murder
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DAs Granted Temporary Restraining Order Stopping Earlier Releases for Serious, Violent Criminals by CDCR
Link to: DAs Granted Temporary Restraining Order Stopping Earlier Releases for Serious, Violent Criminals by CDCR
DAs Granted Temporary Restraining Order Stopping Earlier Releases for Serious,...
Link to: Former Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Voluntary Manslaughter
Link to: Former Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Voluntary Manslaughter
Former Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Voluntary Manslaughter
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
