Important Holiday Shopping Tips to Avoid Scams - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Important Holiday Shopping Tips to Avoid Scams
As we enter the holiday season, we are reminding the public about common scams and also providing tips to keep your purchases safe from bad actors.
Be wary of holiday sales scams that often appear as deals that are too good to be true. If you receive an ad that has an unrealistic discount or is offering an item you know is sold out at other stores, chances are it’s a scam.
Research sellers before you buy. Only use trusted vendors and use a credit card instead of debit card to receive an added layer of fraud protection.
When ordering online, be sure you’ll be home to receive packages. During the holiday season, it is common for thieves to take boxes or envelopes left unattended on a porch or in front of an apartment door.
Many online retailers give an option for secure locker pick-up or in-store pick-up. Consider using this method to avoid the heartache of stolen gifts.
When scrolling social media, beware of targeted ads that offer vouchers, gift cards or holiday promotions.
Often, these scams lead consumers to an online survey that steals personal information. If you access an ad through a social media platform, be sure to research the business or website.
Only provide credit card or personal information when you know it’s safe.
If you discover that you have been scammed, you can report it to your credit card company or bank to dispute the charges.
You can also report it to the Internet Crime Complaint Center at
IC3.gov.
You can also report fraud to the Federal Trade Commission or as always, you can go to
SanDiegoDA.com
for assistance.
On behalf of everyone at the District Attorney’s Office, have a wonderful and safe holiday shopping season.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/ONLINE-Holiday-Shopping-DAnews-Story.jpg
320
480
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2022-12-13 09:45:17
2022-12-13 10:48:45
Important Holiday Shopping Tips to Avoid Scams
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Reaches Out to Immigrant and Refugee Communities
Link to: DA Reaches Out to Immigrant and Refugee Communities
DA Reaches Out to Immigrant and Refugee Communities
Link to: Capital One to Pay $2 Million to Settle Suit for Unlawful Debt Collection Practices
Link to: Capital One to Pay $2 Million to Settle Suit for Unlawful Debt Collection Practices
Capital One to Pay $2 Million to Settle Suit for Unlawful Debt Collection P...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
