Defendants Sentenced for Two-Day Crime Spree Involving Seven Violent Incidents - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Defendants Sentenced for Two-Day Crime Spree Involving Seven Violent I...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that two defendants convicted of multiple violent felony crimes that terrorized several victims over two days, have been sentenced to prison for their July 2023 crime spree.
Calvin Brown, 27, was convicted in August of four separate carjackings at gunpoint, assault with a semi-automatic firearm on eight victims at three separate locations, animal abuse, robbery, hit and run causing permanent serious injury, and other felony crimes. Rolaena Blunt, 20, pleaded guilty on August 22 to assault with a semi-automatic firearm on two victims, and a separate robbery and carjacking for her role in the crimes.
Brown was sentenced to 59 years, 8 months in state prison; Blunt was sentenced to 10 years, 8 months in state prison.
“These defendants terrorized multiple groups of victims during a disturbing and violent two-day crime spree that crisscrossed the county, and they are now being held accountable,” DA Stephan said. “From South Bay to North County, their crimes terrified residents and businesses, and led law enforcement on dangerous high-speed pursuits. I am grateful to San Diego Police and the San Diego County Sheriff’s Department for their thorough investigations and to our prosecution team for expertly delivering justice in this case.”
The crime spree began at 3:00 a.m. on July 3, 2023, in downtown San Diego when Brown carjacked a BMW at gunpoint, then fled from police at speeds exceeding 90-miles-per-hour. Two days later, Brown and Blunt drove in the carjacked BMW to a home in Imperial Beach where Brown shot a woman and a dog.
Next, the two drove a home in San Diego where Brown shot at a woman after he vandalized her residence. They then drove to a business on El Cajon Boulevard where Blunt stole items and Brown shot at employees who tried to stop the theft. Fleeing the robbery, while driving over 140 miles-per-hour on Interstate 805, Brown collided with two vehicles, causing one to roll over multiple times inflicting serious injuries on a 12-year-old girl.
Brown and Blunt abandoned the stolen BMW, ran off the freeway, and carjacked a second car at gunpoint. They drove to Encinitas, where they abandoned the second car and carjacked a third car at gunpoint. Defendant Brown fired multiple times at the last carjacking victim while being pursued. San Diego County Sheriff deputies finally apprehended Brown and Blunt at a fitness center in Encinitas after citizens called police with their whereabouts.
Deputy District Attorney Jim Koerber
from the
DA’s Major Violators Team
prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Gavel-and-gun.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-12-12 13:15:14
2024-12-12 13:15:14
Defendants Sentenced for Two-Day Crime Spree Involving Seven Violent Incidents
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Homeless Resource Fair with City of Chula Vista and MTS
Link to: Homeless Resource Fair with City of Chula Vista and MTS
Homeless Resource Fair with City of Chula Vista and MTS
Link to: Proposition 36 Becomes Law
Link to: Proposition 36 Becomes Law
Proposition 36 Becomes Law
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
