Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach All...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that a 53-year-old man, who attacked a woman from behind in 2001 and dragged her into a Pacific Beach alley, forcing her to have sex with him, has been sentenced to 15 years-to-life in prison.
After deliberating for one day, a jury found John House guilty last November of forcible oral copulation as well as a kidnapping allegation.
“The victim waited more than 20 years for this defendant to be brought to justice for his horrific kidnap and sexual assault,” DA Stephan said. “Through the tireless work of specialized prosecutors and investigators in our Cold Case and Sex Crimes Units along with our law enforcement partners, we are able to solve these crimes that leave victims and their families living in fear and looking behind their shoulder for years.”
On a late morning in August 2001, the victim was walking down a Pacific Beach street when the defendant approached her from behind, put his hand over her mouth and dragged her into an alley to have sex while threatening her with a knife. Given the limitations of the DNA technology at the time, the San Diego Police Department Crime Laboratory was unable to develop a DNA profile from the sperm fraction collected from victim’s lips and the case went cold.
In 2022 there was a break in the case thanks to developments in DNA testing technology and retesting of the evidence. A full DNA profile was developed, which matched the defendant. It turned out he was involved in previous incidents, including a criminal case from 2001. In that case, defendant House approached five different female joggers from behind and sexually battered them, resulting in a prison sentence of seven years.
The DA’s Cold Case Homicide Division has dedicated and experienced investigators and prosecutors who use the latest forensic evidence technology to deliver justice to victims. The division promotes public safety by working with local law enforcement to resolve unsolved homicides within San Diego County. These partnerships are key to solving and successfully prosecuting cases where the trail has gone cold for years. Since it was established in 2003, the Cold Case Homicide Division has played a role in solving and prosecuting numerous murders.
Deputy District Attorney Zachary Wallace
prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Prisoner-handcuffed-behind-bars.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-05 12:09:57
2025-02-05 12:09:57
Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby
Link to: Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby
Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby
Link to: 26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year
Link to: 26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year
26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
