Meet Assistant Chief of the Juvenile Division Samira Seidu - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Assistant Chief of the Juvenile Division Samira Seidu
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet the
Assistant Chief of the Juvenile Division, Deputy District Attorney Samira Seidu
, who has been with the DA’s Office since 2009. As Assistant Chief of the Juvenile Division, Samira works closely with the Chief of the Juvenile Division and our justice partners throughout the county to ensure that our community is kept safe by working together to provide our youth with the services they need to reach their rehabilitative goals.  Read more about what inspired her to purse a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office?
“I had no idea I would wind up at the DA’s office when I started law school. I went to law school to pursue a career in environmental law. But while reading jury trial transcripts during an internship with the Attorney General Office’s Writs and Appeal section, I quickly decided I wanted to be a District Attorney. I wanted to work with the victims. I wanted to be the person in court arguing motions, questioning witnesses, and arguing the case to a jury. I wanted to be a trial lawyer, to give victims a sense of justice and to be a voice for the most vulnerable members of our community. I interned with the DA’s office in Spring 2008, and I have been here ever since.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“
Black History Month
is important because it is an opportunity to honor and celebrate the achievements of African Americans and the contributions they have made to American society. Black History Month is important because I don’t know that we would hear about these achievements and contributions otherwise. Although this singular month represents an opportunity to put a spotlight on the significant contributions Black Americans have made to this country, Black history is American history and Black history should be celebrated year-round.  Black history should be important to everyone.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Black-History-Month-DAnews-PHOTO-Samira.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-02-05 17:18:10
2024-02-05 19:22:47
Meet Assistant Chief of the Juvenile Division Samira Seidu
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: District Attorney Summer Stephan Honored with U.S. Attorney General Meritorious Public Service Award
Link to: District Attorney Summer Stephan Honored with U.S. Attorney General Meritorious Public Service Award
District Attorney Summer Stephan Honored with U.S. Attorney General Meritorious...
Link to: ‘Del Mar Rapist’ Denied Parole
Link to: ‘Del Mar Rapist’ Denied Parole
‘Del Mar Rapist’ Denied Parole
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
