30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced that a 22-year-old man was sentenced on Thursday to 30 years in prison for shooting an Oceanside AM/PM store clerk in the abdomen during a robbery and a separate shooting in Escondido. Hans Nanduca, who was on probation, pleaded guilty to assault with a semi-automatic firearm, admitted that he personally used a firearm, and admitted a prior strike when entering guilty pleas last month. In the Escondido case, Nanduca also pled guilty to assault with a semi-automatic firearm and attempted robbery while vicariously armed with a firearm.
The AM/PM store clerk fortunately survived his injuries, but the defendant— who was wearing a mask— was not apprehended immediately. Two weeks later, Nanduca was an accomplice in another robbery at a local business in Escondido where a gun was fired. The firearm, which turned out to be an untraceable ghost gun found on scene was eventually connected to Nanduca when the cartridge casings from the Oceanside and Escondido shootings were matched to the firearm. That link led to charges and the successful prosecution of the AM/PM shooting. At the time of the crimes, Nanduca was on probation for carjacking while armed with a knife and reckless driving.
“
This defendant’s violent crimes nearly took the lives of innocent people who were working hard at local businesses. The fact that defendant used a ghost gun made the investigation more difficult, but Oceanside and Escondido police detectives persisted in solving these crimes and our office brought a successful prosecution to end the defendant’
s crime spree
,” said DA Summer Stephan. “This lengthy and well-deserved sentence brings a measure of relief for the victims and businesses and we stand ready to support them with specialized services to process the trauma they suffered.”
This case was prosecuted by Deputy District Attorney Daniel Gochnour, who is assigned to the DA’s North County Branch in Vista.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Bullet-crime-scene.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-17 18:04:59
2024-05-17 18:04:59
30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
Link to: Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
