DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
was honored this week at the Drug Enforcement Administration’s Red Ribbon Awards Luncheon with the
Frank Goldsmith Lifetime Achievement Award
for her tireless work and dedication to keeping San Diego County safer and healthier through the prevention of crime, including education about harmful and often deadly, illicit substances.
“
It is such an honor to receive this recognition, especially because it is awarded by an organization that honors the legacy of a hero, slain DEA Agent Enrique ‘Kiki’ Camarena whose legacy created the largest national drug awareness campaign to save lives—  Red Ribbon Week,” said DA Stephan.
“
This award is a testament to the relentless work of my DA Team,
collaborati
ng with our law enforcement and community partners on our shared goal of saving the lives of children and adults from illicit and deadly drugs such as fentanyl and methamphetamine.  I’m honored to be in the company of the other awardees that serve our community. “
Some of DA Stephan’s specific efforts that were recognized with the Lifetime Achievement Award, include the following:
DA Stephan worked with the DEA to create the first of its kind, multi-agency, Overdose Response Team, known as Narcotics Task Force Team 10. This task force revolutionized how drug deaths were investigated and prosecuted in San Diego County and has served as a model for law enforcement and prosecution offices throughout the nation.
While remaining committed to holding drug traffickers accountable through aggressive, ethical, and fair prosecution, DA Stephan has always recognized not only the value but the necessity of prevention efforts when it comes to substance use.
DA Stephan spearheaded the creation of the San Diego Opioid Project, a data-driven, innovative, sustained public awareness campaign that generated more than 46 million impressions and 3.8 million social media engagements.
Under DA Stephan’s leadership, the role of Community Partnership Prosecutor was created to interact directly with the public to learn about their specific concerns and needs, and provide workable solutions and education, including substance use and overdose prevention.
Prosecutors in the DA’s Major Narcotics Division regularly speak to members of the community about the harms caused by illicit fentanyl and other harmful controlled substances.
DA Stephan has partnered with experts from a variety of fields, including education, medicine, law enforcement, treatment, and prevention. Together with these partners, she has and continues to organize community events, personally addressing audiences of students, parents, teachers, congregations, and other community groups and members about the risks and harm caused by illicit substances. The presentations occur both online and in-person with one goal in mind – saving lives.
Other awardees at the Red Ribbon Luncheon included William Perno from SAY San Diego who received the
Excellence in Prevention Advocacy Award,
the Juvenile Drug Smuggling Prevention Program received the
Outstanding Prevention Program Award
, the Camp Pendleton Substance Assessment Counseling Center, Drug Demand Reduction Program received the
Deb Nixon Education Award
, San Diego Superior Court Judge Enrique Camarena, Jr. received the
Justice System Community Excellence Award;
Detective Nathan Parga from San Diego Police Department received the
Enrique “Kiki” Camarena Law Enforcement Award
.
Red Ribbon Week is celebrated annually October 23 to 31 by the Drug Enforcement Administration and communities across the country to highlight the importance of a drug-free life. Inspired by the tragic death of local DEA Special Agent Enrique “Kiki” Camarena, this week of remembrance has helped spread awareness of drug misuse prevention and serves as an opportunity for parents, educators, and communities to reinforce the drug-free messages they share with their children throughout the year.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/DA-Summer-Stephan-Red-Ribbon-Award-.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-10-10 15:53:06
2024-10-10 15:55:04
DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Serial Rapist Who Terrorized Pacific Beach is Denied Parole
Link to: Serial Rapist Who Terrorized Pacific Beach is Denied Parole
Serial Rapist Who Terrorized Pacific Beach is Denied Parole
Link to: Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz
Link to: Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz
Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
