DA Stephan Appoints Rachel Solov as New Assistant District Attorney - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Stephan Appoints Rachel Solov as New Assistant District Attorney
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that she has appointed Rachel Solov to the position of Assistant District Attorney following the retirement of Dwain Woodley this month. She is the first woman to hold the number two post in the District Attorney’s Office.
During her time in the District Attorney’s Office, Solov has served in management roles as a team leader in North County, division chief of the Collaborative Justice Division, chief of Mental Health and Criminal Justice Reform Strategies, and as Chief Deputy District Attorney. As a Chief Deputy, Solov has supervised many divisions including Special Operations, Superior Court, Gangs, Juvenile, Economic Crimes and Consumer Protection, Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice, Case Issuing, and Collaborative Justice.
In addition, she has worked closely with County Behavioral Health and other parts of the County to promote innovations that have advanced public safety.
“Rachel Solov brings exceptional leadership and prosecutorial experience, sound judgment and unique expertise to this critical public safety position as second in command in our office,” DA Stephan said. “Rachel’s statewide expertise in threat assessment and criminal justice innovations that address the intersection of mental health, addiction, homelessness and public safety are needed now more than ever. I look forward to working alongside Assistant DA Solov to fulfill our mission of pursuing a fair and equal justice for all, protection of victims of crime, prosecution of those who harm our neighborhoods and smart crime prevention.”
Solov, a career prosecutor, began in the DA’s Office as an intern with the Victim Witness program in 1994. She started her prosecutorial role in 1999 and has worked across numerous divisions in the DA’s Office including Superior Court, Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking, the North County branch, East County branch, Case Issuing, and the Collaborative Justice Division. Throughout her career Solov has prosecuted misdemeanors and felonies, sexual assault, sexually violent predators, stalking, threat, and homicide cases. She is a certified threat manager and has been recognized nationally for her significant contributions to the field of threat assessment and management.
“I am deeply honored to be selected by District Attorney Summer Stephan to serve as Assistant District Attorney,” Solov said. “Having spent my career as a prosecutor, I am committed to using my experience to advance public safety, support victims of crime, and ensure justice is pursued fairly and thoughtfully. It is a privilege to serve the residents of San Diego County and to work alongside the dedicated prosecutors and staff who carry out this important mission every day.”
Solov, 54, grew up in Los Angeles but has been part of the San Diego Community since attending and graduating Cum Laude from San Diego State University. She attended the University of San Diego Law School, graduating in 1998. While there, she served as executive editor of the San Diego Law Review.
The appointment is effective immediately.
Dwain Woodley spent 24 years in the District Attorney’s Office and had been Assistant DA since 2021.
“It is with deep gratitude that I bid Assistant DA Dwain Woodley a wonderful retirement,” DA Stephan said. “I’m so proud of all of ADA Woodley’s accomplishments that helped keep San Diego County one of the safest regions in the country through ethical prosecution and public service.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/Rachel-Solov-ADA-1.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-12-22 12:08:33
2026-01-09 10:39:11
DA Stephan Appoints Rachel Solov as New Assistant District Attorney
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Stephan Testifies Before U.S. House Committee on Crime, Updates Congress on National Threat of Organized Retail Crime
Link to: DA Stephan Testifies Before U.S. House Committee on Crime, Updates Congress on National Threat of Organized Retail Crime
DA Stephan Testifies Before U.S. House Committee on Crime, Updates Congress...
Link to: ‘Home for the Holidays’ Human Trafficking Operation Recovers 19 Victims in Three Days
Link to: ‘Home for the Holidays’ Human Trafficking Operation Recovers 19 Victims in Three Days
‘Home for the Holidays’ Human Trafficking Operation Recovers 19 Victims...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
