Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Paralegal Lyka Huffman
, who has been working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for 12 years. She started her career in our office as a volunteer, then was hired full-time as a Legal Support Assistant in South Bay in 2012 and became a Paralegal in Superior Court, where she worked for eight years. She is currently assigned to the
Economic Crimes and Consumer Protection Division
where she assists attorneys in criminal prosecution in cases related to identity theft, embezzlement, organized retail theft, securities fraud, consumer and environmental protection. As a Paralegal, she works alongside Deputy DAs, DA Investigators, and other staff members to ensure that all aspects of a case are prepared for preliminary exams and trials. She also guides victims to the proper resources to ensure that they receive all the answers and remedies they seek, including restitution.
When she’s not busy working, she enjoys spending time with her family and catching up with friends over a meal. In her free time, she also likes to read, learn new recipes, and watch K-Dramas. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in public service?
“I chose to become a public servant because I believe that our work is meaningful and I’m able to use my skills and knowledge for the public good. Having been born and raised in Metro Manila, I was raised to value hard work, service, and humility. Seeing my grandparents, parents, and other relatives serve the community made it an easy choice for me to follow the same path. As a Paralegal, I enjoy the excitement in victims when they learn of a conviction. I also enjoy letting victims know when our office collects restitution for them, especially when they didn’t expect to get relief after being defrauded. Beyond the fulfilling work, I picked a career with the County because it provides a good work-life balance. I can feel good about pursuing a career while remaining present for my family.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“As a parent raising second generation Americans, I believe that teaching our kids about our history, heritage and culture is crucial to shaping their character.
AAPI Heritage Month
celebrates the perseverance, resilience, and contributions of AAPI communities in the United States. By celebrating our heritage, we can uphold our values while recognizing our American identity.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Lyka-Hoffman-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-16 10:00:18
2025-05-16 12:56:37
Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Link to: DA Hate Crimes Prosecutor Honored with Anti-Defamation League’s ‘Sherwood Prize for Combatting Hate’
Link to: DA Hate Crimes Prosecutor Honored with Anti-Defamation League’s ‘Sherwood Prize for Combatting Hate’
DA Hate Crimes Prosecutor Honored with Anti-Defamation League’s ‘Sherwood...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
