Meet Human Resources Manager Kelly Lyons - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Human Resources Manager Kelly Lyons
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
DA Human Resources Manager Kelly Lyons
, who has been working in the County for 26 years, and 24 of those years have been at the DA’s office. Kelly is the Human Resource Manager for the Human Resource Management Unit, which covers important areas of position management, recruitment, hiring, transfers, human resources policies and procedures, Covid management, workplace accommodations, workers’ compensation, leave administration, benefits administration, employee relations, performance appraisals and appeals, grievances, discipline, and employee investigations. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“Both my mother and sister worked in public service, but my mom was actually the one who pushed me to get a government job for the stability and great benefits. Once I started working in public service, I learned about the District Attorney’s Office and had a strong desire to work there. I enjoy supporting people who work to uphold justice. Human Resources is the backbone of any organization, and working at the District Attorney’s Office allows me to contribute behind the scenes ensuring that our staff has the resources, support and environment they need to do their jobs effectively.”
What does African American History Month mean to you/why is it important?
“As a Black woman, Black History Month is deeply personal. It’s a time to honor the strength, resilience, and brilliance of those who came before me, especially the Black women who have shaped history but whose contributions have often been overlooked. For me, it’s a time of reflection and pride, recognizing the sacrifices made so that I can stand where I am today. It’s a reminder that I come from a lineage of trailblazers, innovators, and leaders who have fought for justice, equality, and representation. It’s important because it ensures that the struggles and triumphs of Black individuals are acknowledged, and the future generations understand the significance of diversity, representation, and inclusion in shaping a better society for all. Most importantly it’s a call to action to honor the past by creating a future where Black excellence is acknowledged every day, not just in February.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Black-History-Month-DAnews-Kelly-Lyons.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-12 12:58:19
2025-02-12 12:58:19
Meet Human Resources Manager Kelly Lyons
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet the Assistant Chief of Juvenile Division Samira Seidu
Link to: Meet the Assistant Chief of Juvenile Division Samira Seidu
Meet the Assistant Chief of Juvenile Division Samira Seidu
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
