Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet the DA’s Chief Technology Officer, Julian Shelby, who leads the DA’s Information Technology Department, including cybersecurity. He began his County career with the DA’s Office in March 1998 and left with Child Support Enforcement when it separated from the DA’s Office to become Child Support Services. He returned in May 2024 as the Chief Information Security Officer (cybersecurity) after nearly 18 years with the County Technology Office. Read more about what inspired him to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“I dreamed of being Q from the James Bond movies because I thought it would be awesome to invent cool gadgets. I switched from electronics to IT when I was hired by the DA’s Office, which was pure happenstance. Returning has been a blessing! Proud that my mother retried from law enforcement as a civilian as will I.”
What does African American History Month mean to you?
“African American History Month to me is a time when those of us from black African descent get to reflect on both the struggles and subsequent successes of our forefathers. I was born and raised in New Orleans, Louisiana to a civil rights activist mother and a civil rights attorney father, who is not of African descent. Ironically, it was my father who named me Julian after the civil rights leader, Julian Bond, and my middle name Kenyatta is from Jomo Kenyatta, the first anti-colonial president of Kenya.”
Anything else you want to share?
“Yes. A piece from the great Langston Hughes: ‘O, I’m the man who sailed those early seas In search of what I meant to be my home — For I’m the one who left dark Ireland’s shore, And Poland’s plain, and England’s grassy lea, And torn from Black Africa’s strand I came To build a “homeland of the free.’
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Black-History-Month-DAnews-Julian-Shelby.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-03 08:00:10
2025-01-30 18:49:59
Meet Chief Technology Officer Julian Shelby
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Man Sentenced for Shooting Spree Resulting in One Death and Three Injuries
Link to: Man Sentenced for Shooting Spree Resulting in One Death and Three Injuries
Man Sentenced for Shooting Spree Resulting in One Death and Three Injuries
Link to: Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Link to: Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
