Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo,
who has been with the DA’s Office for 18 years.  She began her career in the office as an Intermediate Clerk in our North County Branch, then she transferred to the Hall of Justice in 2021 when she promoted to Legal Support Supervisor II in the
Superior Court Division – Records Unit
. As a supervisor she led a team of 8-10 support staff; Office Assistants, Legal Support Assistants, and Student Workers, and provided training for each desk in the unit. She made sure to motivate staff to always do their best in their assignments and encouraged professional growth. Just recently, Maria was promoted to Legal Support Manager.
“I am very excited to start this new chapter and opportunity in my career with the DA’s office,” she said.
When she’s not busy working, you might see her spending a lot of time at Disneyland, because she loves “Disney and Mickey Mouse! I have an annual pass and go to Disneyland twice a month with my boys. Thankfully, they too love going and are not getting tired of it.”
Read more about what inspired Maria to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in public service?
“I started at a younger age and honestly at the time, I did not know much about the District Attorney’s office. This was the first department in the County of San Diego to offer me an interview. Other departments offered me positions but it was our office that captured my interest. As my time in the DA’s office grew, I have learned to understand so much about how the justice system is important to the public in pursuing justice and helping victims. I am proud of what the DA’s Office stands for and honored to be part of the DA family. “
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“
AAPI Month
is important to me because it recognizes and honors the Asian community, for its culture, traditions and heritage. It also gives our young Asian generation a chance to learn more about AAPI heritage and history, to embrace where their ancestors are from and help understand what being Asian American and Pacific Islander is about.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Maria-Garlejo-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-23 08:00:35
2025-05-22 18:03:45
Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Succeeds in Reversing Parole Board Policy on Banning Crime Scene and Autopsy Photos
Link to: DA Succeeds in Reversing Parole Board Policy on Banning Crime Scene and Autopsy Photos
DA Succeeds in Reversing Parole Board Policy on Banning Crime Scene and Autopsy...
Link to: Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Link to: Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
