Deputy District Attorneys Recognized with MADD “Prosecutor of the Year” Awards - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Deputy District Attorneys Recognized with MADD “Prosecutor of the Year” Awa...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that Deputy District Attorneys Mary Loeb and Natalie Garcia were each recognized as Prosecutor of the Year for their work in the DA’s DUI Homicide Unit. The honors were announced by Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) at the annual MADD San Diego Law Enforcement and Prosecutor Recognition Awards held June 5th at the Town and Country Resort.
“This recognition from MADD highlights the outstanding work of our prosecution team, specifically Mary Loeb and Natalie Garcia, whose expertise and commitment in serious and fatal DUI-related cases repeatedly delivers justice to victims and their families,” said DA Stephan. While the fatal consequences of alcohol-impaired driving are well known, we’re increasingly seeing drivers under the influence of drugs or a dangerous mix of both alcohol and drugs, with often tragic outcomes. These two prosecutors skillfully handle complex drug-DUI cases, helping jurors understand the often-hidden signs of drug impairment. I’m incredibly proud of them, and this award is a testament to their hard work and dedication.”
In 2024, 26 people were killed in 21 DUI-related crashes in San Diego County. So far in 2025, the DA’s DUI Homicide Unit has filed 11 new DUI homicide cases.
Recipients of MADD’s awards are chosen through a call for nominations process. The organization reaches out to community partners, law enforcement agencies, local officials and their internal victim advocates asking them to nominate individuals who stand out in the community with regards to DUI-related work.
Every year, MADD honors law enforcement officials for their continuous efforts in DUI-related enforcement. This year, the event recognized law enforcement with awards for the number of DUI arrests made annually. According to MADD, each arrest is a life saved and MADD awards law enforcement’s service as they dedicate their lives to keeping our roads safe.
Deputy DAs Mary Loeb and Natalie Garcia were nominated by Deputy DA Hailey Williams, the Director of the DA
’
s DUI Homicide Unit. In 2024, Loeb and Garcia successfully prosecuted Tayishe Baltys for killing 15-year-old Jessica Talamante and her 39-year-old stepfather Brian McKee. In 2022, Baltys drove drunk and fatally struck Jessica and Brian as they walked across East Plaza Boulevard in National City toward their home. Prior to the collision, Baltys spent three hours drinking alcohol with co-workers at a Dave & Buster’s restaurant in Mission Valley. Despite two separate bartenders asking Baltys if she planned to take an Uber or Lyft home, Baltys instead got behind the wheel of her car so intoxicated that she drove to National City, even though she resides in Mission Valley.
Although Baltys repeatedly denied drinking to the responding officers, her blood-alcohol content was approximately 0.16%, which is twice the legal driving limit. Just 19 days before the fatal collision, Baltys had completed DUI probation following a DUI arrest and conviction one year earlier. Deput DAs Mary Loeb and Natalie Garcia’s skilled presentation of the facts of their case and cross-examination of defense witnesses secured justice for the deaths of Jessica and Brian. In December 2024, a Chula Vista jury returned guilty verdicts against Baltys for their murders.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/MADD-Awards-2025.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-06-16 16:00:08
2025-06-17 12:15:43
Deputy District Attorneys Recognized with MADD “Prosecutor of the Year” Awards
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-12-25
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-12-25
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-12-25
Link to: New Animal Cruelty Case Filed
Link to: New Animal Cruelty Case Filed
New Animal Cruelty Case Filed
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
