Victims of Las Vegas Mass Shooting Get Help from San Diego’s DA - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Victims of Las Vegas Mass Shooting Get Help from San Diego’s DA
The Las Vegas mass shooting undoubtedly left many victims in need of help and a variety of services to help them cope and recover. In response to the shooting, San Diego County District Attorney victim advocates traveled to Las Vegas to help.
[TWEET THIS]
Two victim advocates from the DA’s Office joined other victim advocates and agencies from across the state of California and Nevada at the Las Vegas Family Assistance Center, which was operated by the American Red Cross from October 1 through October 20.
The DA’s victim advocates were there for one week, working 12 hour shifts assisting family members and victims obtain services such as crisis intervention, needs assessment, and assistance with filing Victim Compensation Program applications for funeral/burial expenses, medical expenses, wage loss, and mental health counseling.
More than 4,000 victims were assisted during the time the center was operating.
San Diego County residents affected by the Las Vegas mass shooting may qualify for local victim services and resources, including help paying for expenses associated with loss and recovery.
Many San Diego-area residents were at the concert and are victims of this tragedy. Some have created GoFundMe accounts and may not realize that, even though the crime happened in Las Vegas, they may be entitled to receive help from the state of California.
District Attorney Summer Stephan explains
in this video
.
Learn more,
here
.
[TWEET THIS]
[Pictured above, the two victim advocates who traveled to Las Vegas give presentation to the rest of the DA victim services team.]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/LV-Victim-Services-Presentation-danews-slide.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2017-11-15 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:17:52
Victims of Las Vegas Mass Shooting Get Help from San Diego’s DA
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: SDPD Officer Archie Buggs Dedication Ceremony
Link to: SDPD Officer Archie Buggs Dedication Ceremony
SDPD Officer Archie Buggs Dedication Ceremony
Link to: Protecting Some of Our Most Vulnerable Citizens
Link to: Protecting Some of Our Most Vulnerable Citizens
Protecting Some of Our Most Vulnerable Citizens
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
