Domestic Violence Awareness Month Event Honors Victims and Empowers Survivors - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Domestic Violence Awareness Month Event Honors Victims and Empowers Su...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
joined the San Diego Domestic Violence Council, community leaders and other social service agencies to mark the beginning of Domestic Violence Awareness Month at a ceremony in Balboa Park today. The annual event is meant to empower survivors, award those who work with victims and remember those whose lives were taken in domestic violence incidents during the previous year. This year, the event theme was “Empowering Survivors, Supporting Our Community Together to End Abuse.”
In 2023, there were five domestic violence homicide victims of which the suspect was a current or former intimate partner, a 50% decrease from the year before. That is the lowest number of DV homicides recorded in San Diego County in the past three decades.
Attached here is a list of “Not to Be Forgotten”
domestic violence homicide victims whom officials promise will not be forgotten
.
The San Diego Domestic Violence Council works with its community partners and law enforcement agencies, like the DA’s Office, to support victims in several ways.
“Domestic violence does not discriminate and does not know borders,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “Anyone who is living with any type of violence at home, especially intimate partner violence, needs to know they do not have to live this way. There are many resources and agencies available to help. This event is just one example of efforts that go beyond the month of October. Every day we are all fighting to prevent domestic violence, prosecute offenders and provide resources to empower victims so they can safely leave their abusers and lead a safe and dignified life.”
Last year, there were 16,666 domestic violence calls for assistance made to law enforcement across San Diego County. The DA’s Office filed charges in 1,892 domestic violence cases in 2023. Part of DA’s efforts to prevent domestic violence include coordinated trainings for hundreds of professionals across the county on recognizing the signs and symptoms of domestic violence, firearm safety, victim rights, stalking, and outreach and inclusion of diverse victim populations.
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
, which is managed by the DA’s Office, provides resources and services all under one roof for anyone who has experienced abuse or violence. Since opening in 2022, more than 6,000 victims have been helped. This year, the DA’s
One Safe Place
began a historic partnership with the Attorney General of the State Baja California, Mexico, and the State of Baja California Justice Center for Women in Tijuana to cross-refer victims and provide vital services on both sides of the border to further regionalize help and ensure they can get to a safe and healing place no matter where they live or work.
During the Balboa Park event, which included a resource fair and a candlelight vigil ceremony honoring homicide victims, Amy Vance, who is a survivor of domestic violence shared her personal story.
“The journey to empowerment for survivors has been a goal in my personal and professional life for over a decade,” said Vance, who has spent the last 13 years advocating for other survivors. “For survivors of family violence and their families, it is critical to provide easily accessible, readily available shelter beds with supportive services including counseling, safety planning, workforce development, and a clear path back to a life without violence. Those services must include the input of individuals who have lived experience and understand the ripple effect of violence throughout the family, especially children. It is only through empowerment, healing, and time that the journey is successful.”
The San Diego Domestic Violence Council is a collaboration of organizations and community members who seek to reduce and prevent domestic violence. Partner agencies include the DA’s Office, San Diego County Health and Human Services, the San Diego City Attorney’s Office, the San Diego Sheriff’s Office, and other law enforcement and social services agencies.
“Domestic violence is a community issue, which requires community response,” said San Diego Domestic Violence Council President Dr. Vanessa Rodriguez. “As a psychologist providing clinical care specializing in domestic violence and first responder treatment, I know first-hand the trauma and vicarious trauma caused by domestic violence. Over the past two decades in this field, I have also witnessed remarkable resilience, growth, empowerment, and collaboration among families and communities, which is why I love this year’s theme. We made significant improvement this past year in saving lives, yet our work is far from over. I am confident that together we can build a more compassionate and just community where everyone feels safe and supported.”
If you or someone you know is being abused by a current or former partner, call the
National Domestic Violence Hotline
(1-800-799-7233) for confidential support and assistance planning for safety. More information and resources can be found
on the DA’s website here
.
The
DV Council
will host additional community events throughout October, which you can find
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/10-08-24-DV-Awareness-Month-Event9.jpg
1536
2048
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-10-08 14:15:26
2024-10-08 14:21:17
Domestic Violence Awareness Month Event Honors Victims and Empowers Survivors
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Crime Stoppers Hate Crimes Reward Fund Announced
Link to: Crime Stoppers Hate Crimes Reward Fund Announced
Crime Stoppers Hate Crimes Reward Fund Announced
Link to: Lamps Plus to Pay $4.1 Million to Settle Civil Suit
Link to: Lamps Plus to Pay $4.1 Million to Settle Civil Suit
Lamps Plus to Pay $4.1 Million to Settle Civil Suit
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
