DA Honors 6 'Citizens of Courage' - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Honors 6 ‘Citizens of Courage’
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
honored six brave individuals today during the DA’s 34
th
annual Citizens of Courage Awards, held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week. This year, National Crime Victim’s Rights Week was observed the week of April 21-27 and the theme is
“How would you help? Options, services, and hope for crime survivors.”
As part of this annual event, the DA not only highlights the courageous individuals who survived or witnessed a crime, but also the important services that are offered through the DA’s Victim Assistance program. The DA’s Office is the largest provider of victim services in the county.
“The six individuals we are honoring today were placed in dangerous or trying circumstances and responded with courage,” DA Stephan said. “By recognizing them, we’re also shining a light on the many courageous crime victims our office serves in the pursuit of justice every year, and the importance of supporting victims’ rights, which is an integral part of our mission at the District Attorney’s Office. I am very proud and grateful for the tireless service performed by our Victim Advocates on behalf of crime victims.”
The DA’s
Victim Services Division
strives to reduce the trauma, fear and pain experienced by victims, witnesses, and family members affected by crime. The Victim Assistance Program provides comprehensive services to all crime victims, while Victim Advocates are focused on providing assistance to victims of violent crimes. In 2023, they assisted
9,942
new crime victims. This assistance included
814
crisis interventions and
11,865
resources and referrals. Thousands of additional victims and survivors are also served by our North County Family Justice Center: One Safe Place.
This year, the Citizens of Courage Awards ceremony was held at the Liberty Station Conference Center in front of more than 300 invited dignitaries, elected officials, community leaders and guests. Below are the 2024 Citizens of Courage recipients and links to videos telling their stories, just click on their names to watch their video:
MELISSA SPINELLI
She witnessed a neighbor being attacked, called police, and stayed with the victim to help, passing along his dying words to his family. Deputy District Attorney Helen Kim prosecuted this case.
ANTONIO JASSO
A witness to a deadly hit and run incident who followed the driver at his own peril, leading police to arrest him. Deputy District Attorney Hailey Williams prosecuted this case.
TIFFANY MURPHY
A security guard who endangered her life by putting herself in between a stabber and his victim. Deputy District Attorney Yoni Fraenkel prosecuted this case.
NATALIE ORTIZ, RACHEL and SOPHIE MARTINEZ
A mother and her two daughters who were shot by her boyfriend, called 911, ran for help, and testified against the shooter at trial. Deputy District Attorney Alexandra Lorens prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Citizens-of-Courage-2024-1.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-04-29 15:43:12
2024-05-02 11:30:26
DA Honors 6 ‘Citizens of Courage’
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: The DA’s Office is the Largest Provider of Victim Services in San Diego County
Link to: The DA’s Office is the Largest Provider of Victim Services in San Diego County
The DA’s Office is the Largest Provider of Victim Services in San Diego C...
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
