Mental Health Awareness, Don't Suffer in Isolation - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Mental Health Awareness, Don’t Suffer in Isolation
As Mental Health Awareness Month comes to a close, San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan is reminding the public that resources are available, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. While San Diegans are doing their part to stop the spread of the coronavirus, it is more important than ever to be mindful of mental health and the resources that are available in the County.
[TWEET THIS]
“We know there is an intersection between untreated mental health, substance abuse and the criminal justice system and that this can be triggered by isolation due to the pandemic,” DA Stephan said. “Don’t be afraid to ask for help if you are struggling. We want the public to know there are resources available even during the pandemic. The last thing we want is for untreated mental health problems to turn to violence. Remember, social distance doesn’t have to mean social isolation.”
Any member of the public can use
211 San Diego
as a starting point for services. In addition,
NAMI San Diego’s COVID-19
page offers assistance for those in need. Last year, the District Attorney’s Office created a
911 palm card
that it provided to police agencies, the public and mental health organizations with steps the public should take when providing information to 911 dispatchers on calls for service especially those involving family members with mental health issues and what they should expect when police arrive.
[TWEET THIS]
Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to work with Behavioral Health Services and other stakeholders to bring to the community critical mental health services described in the DA’s Blueprint for
Mental Health Reform
, such as crisis stabilization centers.
“We are all feeling trauma with our routines upended and normal life on hold,” said Luke Bergmann, Director of Behavior Health Services for San Diego County. “With an economic downturn already in motion, we know that risks to behavioral health are especially high. Early intervention can prevent suicide or overdose. That’s why we are reminding everyone that it’s important to talk about your mental health and that the treatment system is open and accessible. If you have a phone, you can get help.”
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Mental-Health.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-05-28 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:51
Mental Health Awareness, Don’t Suffer in Isolation
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: With Schools Closed, Children More Susceptible to Exploitation
Link to: With Schools Closed, Children More Susceptible to Exploitation
With Schools Closed, Children More Susceptible to Exploitation
Link to: DA’s Statement on Death of George Floyd and Protests
Link to: DA’s Statement on Death of George Floyd and Protests
DA’s Statement on Death of George Floyd and Protests
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
