Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Eric Tran
, who began his career at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2014. He is currently a Deputy DA in the Appellate and Training Division where he provides support to our office in the areas of motion practice, appellate practice, legal research, policy, ethics, legislation, training, and public records. Read more about what inspired Eric to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Our mission to pursue equal and fair justice for all and to build safe neighborhoods in partnership with the communities we serve by ethically prosecuting those who commit crime, protecting victims, and preventing future harm.  As an agency, we are fortunately tasked with a fairly straightforward duty to follow the law and do what’s right, ethical, and fair. For me personally, our mission and values provide a fulfilling career that is hard to replicate elsewhere.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“The primary reason I enjoy being a prosecutor in our office is the feeling that I am doing something important and doing it with the best team. With each member of our office, I have the privilege of pursuing justice in a manner that has an impact on the people and communities we serve. Walking out the door every morning, it is easy to step into a role where I can feel rewarded in the service of others and accomplish something that will affect people in a positive way.”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“To me,
AAPI Heritage Month
is a celebration of American diversity and an opportunity to appreciate cultures and experiences other than one’s own.
AAPI Heritage Month
is in May for two reasons:
1) to commemorate the arrival of the first known Japanese immigrant to the U.S. on May 7, 1843; and
2) to honor the completion of the transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869, which upwards of 20,000 Chinese workers helped to construct. Each May, our nation recognizes the contributions of the generations of
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders
who have enriched United States history, and those who continue to contribute to our nation’s social fabric.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Eric-Tran-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-08 16:46:01
2023-05-08 16:52:48
Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Melissa Ocampo
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Melissa Ocampo
Meet Deputy DA Melissa Ocampo
Link to: Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Link to: Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
