Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and their contributions to our community. Meet
District Attorney Investigator Steve Hutchinson
, who is currently assigned to the Special Operations Unit, where his main duties include reviewing officer-involved shootings and following up on hate crimes. Steve has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for approximately seven years. Read more about what inspired Steve to pursue a career in the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career at the DA’s Office?
“I came to the District Attorney’s Office after spending 32 years at the San Diego Police Department. During those 32 years, I’ve seen the ‘enforcement’ side of the criminal justice system, and being African American, I have seen some of the injustices and unequal treatment served on Black and Brown people outside
AND
inside of the organization. Once my eyes were opened, I spent the remainder of my career identifying and addressing those issues.
Now at the District Attorney’s Office, I get to see the ‘prosecution’ side of the criminal justice system. It is equally important to me to identify and address, within my assigned duties, the issues of anyone who feels that they were not treated fairly or equitable.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“As I appreciate the fact that during the month of February, the contributions of African Americans to this great country are highlighted, recognized, and applauded; the fact of the matter is that these United States of America was built, literally, on the backs of African Americans. However, it saddens me that in this day and age, in prominent states in this country, the true history of Blacks in America is being suppressed and not allowed to be taught in schools for fear of hurting the feelings of some students. History
IS
history, which cannot be changed. Including the GOOD and BAD. But, if we don’t as a country, teach our country’s TRUE history, we WILL be doomed to repeat it.
BLACK HISTORY
IS
HISTORY and should be told and recognized EVERY day, month, and year.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Steve-Hutchinson-DA-news-photo.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-27 12:25:21
2023-02-27 12:55:01
Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Link to: Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Link to: Meet Our Community Justice Champions
Link to: Meet Our Community Justice Champions
Meet Our Community Justice Champions
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
