Meet DA Investigator Adolfo Lomeli - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Adolfo Lomeli
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
District Attorney Investigator Adolfo Lomeli
, who has been working at the DA’s Office since 2013.
Adolfo was born in the state of Jalisco, Mexico, and grew up in Merced California. His dream has always been to work in public safety, but before he set off to pursue that dream, he was an entrepreneur in the bakery business.  Yes, Adolfo went from baking donuts to eating donuts! In order to reach his dream, Adolfo had to learn the English language, become a U.S. citizen, and get a college degree.
While attending the police academy in the late 90s, Adolfo worked for the Merced County DA’s Office as Assistant Investigator in the Family Protection Division for one year. During that year, Adolfo also served as Reserve Deputy Sheriff for Merced County for one year.  Adolfo worked 17 years with the Atwater Police Department and served in various assignments, from patrol, FTO, narcotics, range master, interpreter, and the detective’s bureau.
Adolfo joined the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2013.  He served in the Family Protection Division at the Hall of Justice for nine years.  Adolfo was recently transferred to the North County branch in Vista, to ease the growing demand for Spanish speaking investigators. Adolfo is happy to assist the fast-growing Spanish speaking community in the north county. Occasionally, Adolfo also assists at the recently opened One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center in San Marcos.
Adolfo is married, has two daughters, one son, and two grandchildren. Most of his time is dedicated to spending time with his family. Together, they enjoy camping, fishing, going to the beach, and taking road trips.  Over the weekends, you’ll find Adolfo watching his grandchildren play baseball, working in his back yard, helping his son fix his car, or looking for yard sales.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“I chose a career in law enforcement because I wanted to help my community become a safer place to live. This profession has given me the opportunity to meet people from various backgrounds. I’m a people person, and I really enjoy hearing their stories. I honestly feel that working as a DA Investigator is the highpoint in any investigator’s career. Surrounded by skilled attorneys, paralegals, seasoned investigators, and caring victim advocates, creates the best setting to provide high quality services to our victims when they need it the most.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of the job is when the offender gets a fair sentence, and the victim receives the necessary support to go on with his/her life. Amongst all the tragedy and loss, we inevitably see in our career, it’s very rewarding to see victims recover and regain confidence in themselves and in the justice system.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Hispanic Heritage Month
offers an opportunity for all of us to recognize the contributions and sacrifices people of Hispanic ancestry have made throughout history to bring progress and enrichment to this great nation. These contributions extend from sports, science, music, politics, and military. I think is very important to educate our children about the accomplishments of individuals like them. Hopefully one of these examples could serve as inspiration for them to pursue and achieve their own dream. ¡Si se puede!”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Adolfo-Lomeli-DAnews-EN.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-09-29 10:45:10
2023-09-29 10:45:10
Meet DA Investigator Adolfo Lomeli
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-28-23
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-28-23
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-28-23
Link to: Ringleader in Prolific Residential Burglary Series Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Ringleader in Prolific Residential Burglary Series Sentenced to Prison
Ringleader in Prolific Residential Burglary Series Sentenced to Prison
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
