Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz.
Janet was born in South El Monte, CA (Los Angeles County). She studied English Literature for her undergraduate studies at University of California, Los Angeles and then obtained a Master of Science in Criminal Justice at California State University Long Beach.
As a
Group Program Manager
for the San Diego County District Attorney’s (SDCDA)
Administrative Services Department
, she oversees and works with a team of brilliant analysts within our newly formed
Program Administration Unit
. This team oversees the administrative functions, including performance and compliance, of over 100 contracts annually. The team works across initiatives to support and advocate for the needs of each Division and support the coordination, development, and implementation of services and receipt of goods. Routinely, the team works collaboratively with other county departments, such as County Counsel, Public Safety Group departments, Purchasing and Contracting, Auditor & Controller, and more. Nested under this team are the DA’s Family Justice Centers, the Juvenile Diversion Initiative, the California County Resentencing Pilot Program Contract, and the Community Grant Program. The team’s work is reciprocally connected to our Grants, Budget, and Fiscal units within the Administrative Services Department; the Program Administration Unit is only one piece of the pie.
A fun fact about Janet, is that she recently completed the Disney Halloween Half Marathon!
“I loathe running, but I enjoy a new challenge,” she said. “In fact, my two little ones also participated! My girls ran the Kid Races and earned their own medals while my husband cheered us on! As a mama of two little ones, I hope to have more time for other hobbies one day!”
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“My dad was robbed at gunpoint when I was in my teens, and I recall the fear he lived in for years after that. He had frequent nightmares where he would often wake shouting. In my adolescence, it enraged me that someone could do this and never face any consequences. Unfortunately, and fortunately, this was a pivotal moment for me. My goal then, and through my twenties, was to become a Special Agent for the FBI, but after numerous injuries during training this failure propelled me in a new direction. While in Los Angeles, I began my career providing direct crisis services and advocacy for system-impacted families, and quickly became involved in program design and implementation, including monitoring and evaluation of programs. In 2017, I moved to San Diego to work in the human trafficking prevention space where I co-authored a human trafficking prevention curriculum for middle and high school age youth alongside SDCDA. It was through this work that I recognized the alignment of SDCDA’s values and my own and decided to pursue a career here with the DA in 2022.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“In working for the nonprofit sector for over a decade, I became very familiar with the administrative functions, and organizational needs and limited resources. Local government is entirely different, to say the least. I share this because of my love for learning and there is certainly nothing mundane about what I do. But to add to that I can confidently, and sincerely, say that I have always felt that both my work and perspective are valued here – and that continues to drive me. It may sound trivial, but loving the team you are a part of and feeling valued is of utmost importance to me; it is only then where you don’t lose sight of the bigger picture – and for me that’s to continue centering historically excluded and undervalued communities through my work.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“It is a time to sit in gratitude and appreciate the vibrant cultures that add so much depth and color to this world. It is a time to reflect on the many accomplishments and contributions of Latinos in this country. We’ve been foundational to its growth and prosperity and are often overlooked. Our role in the fight for Civil Rights – from labor (farm workers’ rights, mine workers’ rights) to education (Mendez v. Westminster, Plyler v. Doe) – is not well known. Currently where books that emphasize diversity are banned and Latinos are vilified for existing and, for some, for immigrating to this country, it is even more important to chronicle and elevate the stories of our people and ensure Latinos are integrated in literature and history beyond this month. As Ms. Mendez shared, ‘[…] we are all individuals; […] we are all human beings; […] we all have the same rights, the same freedom.’”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Janet-Ruiz-DAnews-EN.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-10-10 16:51:47
2024-10-10 16:52:19
Meet Group Program Manager Janet Ruiz
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award
Link to: DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award
DA Receives Red Ribbon Lifetime Achievement Award
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-10-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-10-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-10-24
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
