DA to Notify Victims of Expedited Prisoner Release - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA to Notify Victims of Expedited Prisoner Release
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan said today her office has set up a special team tasked with locating and notifying local crime victims that a prisoner connected to their case is being released early by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR). DA Stephan is also providing connections to victim resources, such as counseling and information on how to obtain a restraining order.
[TWEET THIS]
TCDCR announced its decision last month to start expediting the release of certain
,
high-risk medical inmates, and certain inmates with less than a year remaining on their sentence, in an effort to lower the prison populations amid the COVID-19 pandemic. If they meet specific conditions, CDCR estimates up to 8,000 currently incarcerated individuals could be eligible for release across the state by end of August. So far, the San Diego District Attorney’s Office has received notification that hundreds of prisoners have been released.
Unfortunately, neither crime victims nor the District Attorney are being given the opportunity to voice public safety concerns or object to the early releases and CDCR is only notifying victims registered with CDCR. District Attorneys around the state have stepped up to notify victims that inmates are being released.
“We were very concerned that with CDCR focused on reducing the prison population due to the pandemic, victims were not getting any opportunity to be heard in this process, nor was CDCR notifying victims so they can take steps to provide for their safety,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “While many of the inmates being released were already nearing the end of their terms, CDCR is also releasing inmates who were sentenced to life terms for very serious offenses. We requested notice before San Diego releases began taking place, and we were able to get assurances in that regard. CDCR is now sending out expedited release notices to our office and our team is working quickly to notify affected victims whom we are able to locate in the short notice we will have, and provide any needed resources.”
More details about prisoners eligible for release
can be found here
.
CDCR has said it will follow post-release requirements under the law, such as transferring offenders to county probation or remaining under state parole.
Any victim of crime concerned about an early release especially if not registered with VINE or who may have moved or changed numbers since the crime, should contact the District Attorney’s Victim Services Division at 619-531-4041.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Jail-shoes-feet.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-08-18 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:58
DA to Notify Victims of Expedited Prisoner Release
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Responds to Spike in Fentanyl OD Deaths
Link to: DA Responds to Spike in Fentanyl OD Deaths
DA Responds to Spike in Fentanyl OD Deaths
Link to: Man Who Pepper Sprayed Police is Formally Charged
Link to: Man Who Pepper Sprayed Police is Formally Charged
Man Who Pepper Sprayed Police is Formally Charged
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
