Meet Departmental Safety Coordinator Lavena Agarma - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Departmental Safety Coordinator Lavena Agarma
In honor of
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Departmental Safety Coordinator Lavena Agarma
, who has been with the DA’s Office since 2012, when she was a Student Worker then she became an Office Assistant in 2013. In her current role in Facilities, some of her duties include analyzing facility needs, monitoring building maintenance as well facility improvement and new building projects and ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and safety standards.
Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“I wanted to make a difference in the community and at the time as clerical staff, I wanted to be a part in serving justice to victims.  Although my role in the office has changed and I worked more on the facilities side of things—I still love being here at the DA’s office.”
What does AANHPI Month mean to you/why is it important?
“AANHPI is important because it honors our culture, traditions, and our heritage. I want to raise my second-generation kids to know and love who they are and where their ancestors came from.  My parents both migrated from Laos and worked tirelessly to give our family a great life here in America and I want to be able to do the same for my kids while teaching them the importance of our culture.”
A fun fact about you or what do you enjoy doing in your free time?
“I enjoy cooking, gathering with friends and family for different occasions and watching my boys grow up.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/05/Lavena-Agarma-AANHPI.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-05-28 11:45:23
2026-05-28 11:45:23
Meet Departmental Safety Coordinator Lavena Agarma
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Crime Analysis Administrator Peter Villaver
Link to: Meet Crime Analysis Administrator Peter Villaver
Meet Crime Analysis Administrator Peter Villaver
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
