Meet Supervising Investigator Chris Raagas - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Supervising Investigator Chris Raagas
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month (AAPI Month)
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
District Attorney Supervising Investigator Chris Raagas
, who began his career at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2013. Chris is currently the
Supervising Investigator for the Superior Court Division,
he is also part of the DA’s Bureau of Investigation’s training cadre and has several collateral duties as a defensive tactics instructor, range safety office and Special Services Team Coordinator. Read more about what inspired Chris to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“I majored in Criminal Justice in college and always wanted to give back to the community and help those in need. After working in law enforcement for several years, coming over to the DA’s Office provided me the opportunity to continue working criminal investigations, but still be able to spend quality time with my family.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Knowing that you had some part of making a case successful when the Deputy District Attorney is able to obtain a guilty verdict. Bringing justice to a victim and closure to a family who is grieving, is a very rewarding experience.”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“It is important because it recognizes the challenges Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders overcame when migrating to this country. As a child of a Filipino immigrant, my father came to this country after enlisting in the Navy. His hard work and perseverance showed me that you should never limit yourself and to keep moving forward, no matter how challenging things get.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Chris-Raagas-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-01 18:54:54
2023-05-24 13:21:06
Meet Supervising Investigator Chris Raagas
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2023: Juan Fierro
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2023: Juan Fierro
Citizens of Courage 2023: Juan Fierro
Link to: One Safe Place Volunteer of the Year Recognized
Link to: One Safe Place Volunteer of the Year Recognized
One Safe Place Volunteer of the Year Recognized
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
