Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Pr...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that  Robert Brians, 51, who in a fit a rage amid a divorce and custody dispute, intentionally drove off Sunset Cliffs with his 2-year-old twin girls in the car has been sentenced to 31 years in state prison.
Brians pleaded guilty on August 9 to two counts of attempted murder, child abuse, kidnapping, domestic violence, and burglary. He had taken the children from his parents’ home in the middle of the night before driving away, intent on killing the girls and himself.
“Attempting to kill your innocent children to hurt your spouse is beyond despicable,” DA Stephan said. “I am grateful to first responders who found this defendant’s whereabouts and were able to save the young girls from drowning. I’m also proud of our Family Protection Division for holding this defendant accountable for his unspeakable act.”
During a 2021 preliminary hearing, Jenna Brians testified that after Brians took the children, she exchanged several text messages with him as she tried to learn their whereabouts. At one point, Brians called Jenna on Facetime so she could say goodbye to the girls. Brians told her that he was planning to drive off a cliff in his truck while his girls were inside. One text message he sent read, “I told you, girls are going to Heaven and I’m going to Hell to wait for you.”
Domestic violence has many forms including physical aggression, sexual abuse, emotional or psychological abuse, stalking, or financial abuse. This includes any behaviors that intimidate, manipulate, hurt, humiliate, blame, frighten, terrorize, injure, or wound someone.
If you or someone you know is being abused, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline
1-800-799-7233. More resources can be found on
the District Attorney’s website
.
In addition, One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center provides free support services all under one roof to anyone who has experienced child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, hate crime, elder abuse, human trafficking, violent loss, family violence, or other abuse or victimization.
OneSafePlaceNorth.org
Deputy District Attorney Franciesca Balerio
prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/Gavel.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-20 16:23:36
2024-09-20 16:23:36
Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Link to: Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario
Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
