Meet Deputy DA Hector Jimenez - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Hector Jimenez
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which is observed from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Deputy District Attorney Hector Jimenez
, who has been with the DA’s Office since 1995.
Hector was born in Guadalajara, Mexico and came to the U.S. when he was 13 years old. Before joining the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office, he worked in the Sacramento County District Attorney’s Office and before that he represented minors in dependency court.
Hector started at the DA’s Office in the Juvenile Branch, and he is currently assigned to the Public Integrity Unit, in Special Operations, where he investigates and prosecutes conduct of elected officials or matters involving public funds.  He also helps with hate crimes and has taken on a few cases from his tenure in the Economic Crimes Division.
During his spare time, Hector coaches high school mock trials, he is involved with the San Diego La Raza Lawyers Association, and he enjoys triathlons and spending time with his family.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“When I was in high school, I was inspired by prosecutors during a Law Day event at the courthouse in Santa Ana, CA. They told us their mission was to help people. From that day, I have aspired to be a diligent and caring prosecutor.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I love the people I work with and our mission to serve the people of this state. The successes are very gratifying, and I can’t think of a better group of people to experience the lows with.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“As an immigrant, it is an interesting concept because I came from a place where the contributions of minorities were not appreciated.  I am proud to belong to a community that recognizes the contributions of its diverse population.  One of the interesting things about the Hispanic community is that we come in all shapes and colors, we are very diverse, and we contribute to all industries.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Hector-Jiemenz-DAnews.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-09-18 15:43:47
2023-09-18 16:28:08
Meet Deputy DA Hector Jimenez
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prison Sentence for Defendant Who Pushed Man into Freight Train
Link to: Prison Sentence for Defendant Who Pushed Man into Freight Train
Prison Sentence for Defendant Who Pushed Man into Freight Train
Link to: Homeless Court: A Model for the Nation
Link to: Homeless Court: A Model for the Nation
Homeless Court: A Model for the Nation
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
