Meet District Attorney Investigator Jovanna Derrough - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet District Attorney Investigator Jovanna Derrough
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
District Attorney Investigator Jovanna Derrough.
Her job is to support the Deputy District Attorneys in an investigative capacity with the cases they bring forth to trial. This can range from interviewing victims and witnesses and following up on investigative leads to writing search warrants, serving subpoenas or collecting evidence. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“It probably sounds cliché, but I pursued a career in law enforcement because I wanted to help people. Everyone wants to belong to something… I joined the San Diego Police Department and became a part of a law enforcement brotherhood/sisterhood. At SDPD, I had the opportunity to gain invaluable knowledge and investigative experience in the areas of narcotics, gangs, de-escalation, missing persons and cold case homicide and retired after 27+ years. I wanted to extend my law enforcement career and continue to serve the community by helping pursue justice for crime victims. Joining the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office gave me the opportunity to do just that.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“
Black History Month
is an opportunity to spotlight the countless contributions African Americans have made to our country, and to show pride in our achievements past and present. Representation matters. I believe educating, acknowledging, and accepting African American accomplishments provides all Americans the opportunity to celebrate African American achievements and see how they are woven into the fabric of building our country. ‘Knowing the past, opens the door to the future.’ -Carter G. Woodson.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Black-History-Month-DAnews-PHOTO-Jovanna-Derrough.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-02-20 08:00:04
2024-02-15 18:03:31
Meet District Attorney Investigator Jovanna Derrough
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA, 14 Mayors Work to Place Public Safety Initiative on the Ballot
Link to: DA, 14 Mayors Work to Place Public Safety Initiative on the Ballot
DA, 14 Mayors Work to Place Public Safety Initiative on the Ballot
Link to: Assistant District Attorney Dwain Woodley Receives Bayard Rustin Award
Link to: Assistant District Attorney Dwain Woodley Receives Bayard Rustin Award
Assistant District Attorney Dwain Woodley Receives Bayard Rustin Award
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
