Public's Help Needed to Solve 2004 Cold Case Murder in Chula Vista - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Public’s Help Needed to Solve 2004 Cold Case Murder in Chula Vis...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that DA investigators, the Chula Vista Police Department and San Diego County Crime Stoppers are asking for the public’s help in identifying and locating the suspects responsible for the murder of a man that took place in Chula Vista more than 20 years ago.
Composite Sketch of Suspected Stabber in Ryan Cunningham 2004 murder in Chula Vista.
On March 20, 2004, 22-year-old Ryan Cunningham was sitting on the patio of La Bella’s Pizza Garden in Chula Vista when he was attacked by a group of men. The suspects, several of whom were armed with various weapons, walked up to Cunningham and immediately began beating him. The beating continued as Cunningham fell to the ground and was eventually stabbed by one of the suspects. The suspects fled in two separate vehicles. Cunningham was transported to a local hospital where he later died.
Detectives from the Chula Vista Police Department Crimes of Violence Unit learned that several private parties were being held at La Bella’s that evening, including a baby shower. Numerous employees and customers of the busy restaurant witnessed the murder. Investigators are asking anyone who attended one of the parties, was at the restaurant, or who may have information about the murder to contact them.
All of the suspects are described as Hispanic males in their 20’s, who would now be in their 40’s. The suspected stabber was described as a Hispanic male in his early 20’s, approximately six feet tall, thin build, with very short dark hair. A sketch of the suspected stabber is attached.
“The victim, Ryan Cunningham, lost his life in this senseless murder and his family deserves to have justice,” said DA Summer Stephan. “It’s clear that there are witnesses that know who stabbed the victim to death or have other valuable information that can help police and investigators to solve this case, but maybe they are afraid to come forward or simply don’t want to be involved. The only way that we can keep all our neighborhoods safe is through partnership with the community. We urge you to provide any information you have about this murder not just because of the reward but because it’s the right thing to do.”
San Diego County Crime Stoppers is offering a $1,000 reward for any information that leads to an arrest in this case. Anyone with information on this murder is asked to call the Crime Stoppers anonymous tip line at (888) 580-8477. The public can visit the Crime Stoppers website at
www.sdcrimestoppers.org
for more information on how to send anonymous web and mobile app tips.
Working with the Chula Vista Police Department, this case is being investigated by the DA’s Gangs Division, which prosecutes complex murder cases and other serious crimes perpetrated by violent criminal street gangs, whose members terrorize neighborhoods across the county. In 2023, the Gangs Division conducted 19 murder jury trials, which was 36% of the total murders tried by the DA’s Office.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/2004-murder-suspect-sketch.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-01-09 12:59:10
2025-01-09 13:01:29
Public’s Help Needed to Solve 2004 Cold Case Murder in Chula Vista
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Files Charges Against SDSU Fraternity Members After One Student is Burned
Link to: DA Files Charges Against SDSU Fraternity Members After One Student is Burned
DA Files Charges Against SDSU Fraternity Members After One Student is Burne...
Link to: Child Molester Sentenced to Prison for Crimes Against Multiple Victims
Link to: Child Molester Sentenced to Prison for Crimes Against Multiple Victims
Child Molester Sentenced to Prison for Crimes Against Multiple Victims
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
