Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that 48-year-old Eduardo Magana has been convicted by a jury of second-degree murder in the disappearance of his former girlfriend, Alexis Berenice Guadarrama Orozco, 33.
At his trial, prosecutors laid out a timeline that showed the defendant met Guadarrama at the Star Motel in Otay Mesa on July 15. The defendant was later seen placing a large, heavy object in the trunk of his car in the early morning hours of July 16. At the same time, all communication from the victim to her friends and family stopped. Magana was arrested three days later in Bell Gardens, CA near Los Angeles. He faces 15 years-to-life at his sentencing hearing on December 2.
Guadarrama’s body was never found and today it is believed to be in the Southern California area. DA Stephan and San Diego Police Chief Scott Wahl are asking for the public’s help locating it.
“While this killer is being held accountable for his crime and justice is being delivered, Alexis Berenice’s family and friends also deserve the closure of knowing her remains can be laid to rest,” DA Stephan said. “Investigators are not giving up and sometimes a tip that seems small or inconsequential can help lead law enforcement to a break in the case. The San Diego Police Department’s Homicide Unit has done an outstanding job investigating this murder and the dedicated prosecution team led by Deputy DAs Justine Santiago and Jennifer Crampton brought a just murder conviction. Now, our team is focused on bringing Alexis Berenice home. Let this case also be a warning that hiding the victim’s body will not deter us from pursuing justice and that jurors will still convict without a body in accordance with the law. The only thing killers prove by hiding the body is that their cruelty is at a greater level.”
“This case highlights the thorough investigative work by our homicide detectives who tirelessly pursued the truth for Alexis Berenice and her loved ones,” Chief Wahl said. “Even though the verdict brings justice, our work is not over. We need your help in finding her body so her family can have the peace they deserve and give her a proper burial. We are asking anyone who may have information to please come forward.”
Anyone with information on this case is asked to contact the San Diego Police Department’s Homicide Unit at (619) 531- 2293 or the Crime Stoppers anonymous tip line at (888) 580-8477. Please visit
www.sdcrimestoppers.org
for information on how to send a web or mobile app tip.
While murder prosecutions where no body has been located are rare, hundreds of such convictions have occurred in the U.S. over the past several decades, thanks to advances in forensic science and digital evidence. Deputy District Attorneys Justine Santiago and Jennifer Crampton prosecuted this case. Assistance on this case was also provided by the Los Angeles Police Department, Los Angeles County Sherriff’s Department, and the San Bernardino County Sherriff’s Department.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/GAVEL-justice-2022-05-18-02-04-24-utc-smaller-scaled.jpg
1707
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-11-07 10:00:30
2025-11-06 16:15:23
Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes
Link to: Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes
Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes
Link to: Operation Mic Drop Concludes with Convictions for Dozens of Gang Defendants
Link to: Operation Mic Drop Concludes with Convictions for Dozens of Gang Defendants
Operation Mic Drop Concludes with Convictions for Dozens of Gang Defendants
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
