Meet Deputy District Attorney Jerry Gonzales - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jerry Gonzales
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Deputy District Attorney Jerry Gonzales.
Jerry has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since May 2007, when he was a Legal Intern. He was sworn in as a Deputy District Attorney in 2009 and is currently assigned to the Gangs Prosecution Unit in our South Bay branch.
When he is not busy working, he enjoys going to the Xolos soccer games in Tijuana. Read more about what inspired Jerry to pursue a career as a prosecutor, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“
During my first internship, I saw the dedication and skill of the prosecutors and staff at the DA’s office. I was amazed by the work that the DA’s office does and saw how it had real impact on the victims and community. The sense of family I felt as an intern showed me that I was in the right place, and that I could take my education and training and use it to make the community a safer place.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I enjoy working with law enforcement, especially in the initial stages of building a case, to hold the guilty accountable for the crimes they have committed. I also enjoy volunteering in the community both in a legal capacity (Project LEAD, SUHI Mock Trial, USD Moot Court) and non-legal capacity (youth baseball and soccer, church groups).”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you/why is it important?
“
Hispanic Heritage Month
is an opportunity to recognize the sacrifices of previous generations that laid the groundwork so that I could take advantage of the opportunities that have been presented to me. It’s about reflecting on the efforts of the countless individuals who have gone before me to pave the way, and to make sure that we work to allow those same opportunities to hard working individuals that follow.”
Read more Hispanic Heritage Month stories from the DA’s Office, here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/DDA-Jerry-Gonzales-HHM.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-09-22 16:21:41
2025-10-15 11:10:04
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jerry Gonzales
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Lowe’s Settles Price Overcharging Allegations and Agrees to Pay $1 Million in Settlement
Link to: Lowe’s Settles Price Overcharging Allegations and Agrees to Pay $1 Million in Settlement
Lowe’s Settles Price Overcharging Allegations and Agrees to Pay $1 Million...
Link to: Fighting Hate in San Diego: DA Summer Stephan Presents on Hate Crimes
Link to: Fighting Hate in San Diego: DA Summer Stephan Presents on Hate Crimes
Fighting Hate in San Diego: DA Summer Stephan Presents on Hate Crimes
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
