Keeping Children Safe Online - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Keeping Children Safe Online
As our world becomes more dependent on technology and the web, especially now with distance learning due to COVID-19, children are increasingly at risk of befriending strangers online.
Educators often act as law enforcement’s eyes and ears, noticing some of the signs that a student is being abused at home or sexually exploited by a trafficker.
Just because kids are not physically in school during this COVID-19 crisis, does not mean they aren’t at risk of being recruited into the dangerous world of human trafficking.
Now that students are all spending more time online, they are a captive audience for would-be traffickers making contact on social media, which means we have to expand our efforts to educate them to prevent them from falling victim to predators.
Our concern is that students are more susceptible than ever to sexual exploitation because teachers and school staff aren’t able to make the same observations as they would in person.
In fact, reports of technology-based exploitation have tripled to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is hard to communicate with kids on sex/abuse topics but it is worth the effort to educate and protect kids.
Signs are not always present but they often are if parents/guardians know what to look for.
What are Potential signs that your child may not be safe online?
These red flags are common with some adolescents that should be taken seriously:
Their teenager or child may be acting secretive of their online activities
Hiding what is on their computer screens
Out of sight or behind a closed door when online
Vague talk of making new friends with little to no details
Agitated behavior when answering their phone or needing to take calls in private
Sneaking out of the house and/or untruthful about who with/where
Dressing/wearing make-up to look older
They get home late
Unexplained expensive gifts/money/clothes
What can parents/guardians do to protect children online?
Parents/guardians are also on the frontlines when it comes to all forms of child abuse and exploitation, whether online or in person – children and adolescents often do not feel vulnerable or understand and appreciate what risks they may face form online or in person victimization.
Parents must communicate with children and teach them trust but at the same time know what their children are doing online and who they are communicating both online and in person.
FBI Recommendations to Parents:
Review and approve games and apps before they are downloaded.
Make sure privacy settings are set to the strictest level possible for social media, online gaming systems, phones and other devices.
Monitor your child’s use of the internet and keep computers in a non-private room.
Explain to your child that images posted online most likely will remain on the internet permanently.
Teach your child about personal boundaries and awareness of their surroundings.
Encourage open child-parent communication around internet safety.
For more information and tips visit
SanDiegoDA.com
.
WATCH: DA Summer Stephan provides tips for parents, here.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Teen-on-ipad-danewscenter.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-01-26 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:12
Keeping Children Safe Online
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Opposes Parole for Murder-for-Hire Killer
Link to: DA Opposes Parole for Murder-for-Hire Killer
DA Opposes Parole for Murder-for-Hire Killer
Link to: DA Hosts Criminal Record Relief Clinic this FRIDAY
Link to: DA Hosts Criminal Record Relief Clinic this FRIDAY
DA Hosts Criminal Record Relief Clinic this FRIDAY
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
