Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Claudia Grasso, Executive Director of the DA’s
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
.
Claudia Grasso was born and raised in East Los Angeles in a one-bedroom apartment where she lived with her parents and three siblings until she went off to college.
Claudia attended UCLA for her undergraduate studies, then Harvard for graduate school and later, the University of San Diego School of Law.
She is currently assigned as the Executive Director of
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
, where she oversees the DA’s Family Justice Center in San Marcos that provides wrap around services to victims of abuse.
When she is not busy helping victims or working on all the important services offered by One Safe Place, she loves watching her son play football and baseball, spending time with family and friends, listening to 80s music, reading, watching movies and traveling to visit her daughter who recently graduated from college.
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“I knew from a young age that I wanted to be a lawyer. Where I grew up, I was exposed early on to victimization of our family and neighbors and had positive experiences with law enforcement. When I learned that there was a branch of law that works with law enforcement, helps victims and fights to bring them justice, I was drawn to prosecution work.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I have served our San Diego’s District Attorney’s Office for over 21 years, first as a volunteer attorney and then as a Deputy District Attorney.  I loved my assignments in Family Protection and getting to try cases where I worked hard to bring justice for women and children. Now, I am thoroughly rewarded by seeing every day the lives we are saving at
One Safe Place
by providing alternatives to living with abuse that are safe and hope filled.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“According to the last census, 35% of San Diego County residents identify as Hispanic/Latino. As a member of this community and proud Latina, I have a passion for outreach, prevention and training geared to our Latinos. So many live in fear of deportation, are misinformed, lack culturally sensitive services in Spanish and are outright marginalized. It is important to not only bring to light the wonderful accomplishments of Latinos during this month but also pay it forward with assistance to those who need it all year round.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Claudia-DAnews-EN.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-16 08:00:47
2024-09-16 11:25:35
Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced
Link to: Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced
Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced
Link to: Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Link to: Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
