Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
, who has been with our office since 2021 and is currently the receptionist at the 13th floor at the Hall of Justice. Read more about what inspired Marilu to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“Prior to joining the DA’s office, in 2007 I was working at the County’s Board of Supervisor’s Office as a Legislative Assistant to Supervisor Dianne Jacob of the Second District, until her term ended in 2021. I enjoyed my service work and was dedicated to continuing a public service career with the County. When I learned about the opportunity of joining the DA’s Office, I was thrilled to pursue the possibility, and I transferred to the DA’s office in 2021. Currently, as a Confidential Legal Secretary, I am a contributing team member of Human Resources staff and the Hall of Justice 13th floor’s Administration Receptionist. I love my role here!”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“My family roots, the culture, our faith and traditions. My parents are from Manila and went to school at the University of San Francisco. My siblings and I were born in San Francisco, and all reside in Southern California, we are close and see each other often. We are blessed to have a large family with first cousins all over the country and we always look forward to getting together and our reunions. I cherish the many stories and memories my parents, grandmother, aunts, and uncles have shared with us over the years with the same importance of family gatherings and their spending time together in Manila. I recall looking at some of their family pictures in Manila – they were always dressed so nice and had dance parties with a lot of food on the tables!”
A fun fact about you or what do you enjoy doing in your free time?
“I enjoy going to Padres games, spending time with family and travelling during my free time. I enjoy catching my niece play soccer and nephews’ basketball and baseball games when their school teams play in town. I especially look forward to our annual family summer vacation in Newport Beach and relaxing in the Duffy boats – we have several families and friends with us, and it is a blast!
I also feel very lucky to stay in close touch with my ‘D2’ family (Supervisor Dianne Jacob’s District 2 staff). One of my favorite places to be in the County is at Dianne Jacob’s ranch – it is amazing, peaceful with a scenic view, and we have so much fun when we get together and spend time on her ranch. I do not get to do the drive up to the mountains often, so when we go, I truly enjoy the sightseeing. We are planning to go again soon, and it is always a special time for all of us!”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Marilu-Glassman-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-29 09:00:33
2025-05-30 12:22:50
Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Link to: Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Link to: Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attack
Link to: Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attack
Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attac...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
