Meet DA Investigator Tony La Dell - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Tony La Dell
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
District Attorney Investigator Tony La Dell
, who has been at the DA’s Office for five years. He is currently assigned to
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
, where he works with 120 partner agencies to support victims of crimes. His job includes safety planning for victims, firearms recovery and other investigations, maintaining the overall security of the office, and developing policies and procedures for
One Safe Place
. Read more about what inspired him to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“I chose a career in public service because I wanted to have a direct, positive impact on the lives of others. I also knew, based on my skill set and having participated in sports all my life, I had the tools to potentially be the kind of police officer who would contribute positively to the community. By contributing positively to the community that improves people’s well-being, I felt like I would be doing something meaningful with my life. I also had some great mentors, starting with my late father, who served in the Korean conflict and was wounded in combat, and my childhood wrestling coaches who were both former police officers.
Prior to joining the DA’s office, I was a police officer with the San Diego Police Department and then the Department of Justice for a combined 35 years. I thought I was ready for retirement but realized I had more to offer in public service, landing the perfect position at
One Safe Place
to finish my law enforcement career helping victims of crimes!”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“
Black History Month
means looking back at the impact Black pioneers and leaders have had on our community, organizations, and cities. It means celebrating and honoring the legacy these pioneers and leaders have laid for future generations to follow. It means supporting the advancement of the Black community amidst the racial injustices that continue to happen throughout the U.S. today. It means educating myself further and honoring the fact that we would not be where we are today without the innovative contributions these Black leaders and pioneers have made — and to remind myself daily that Black history cannot be contained to a single month but should be celebrated and remembered year-round.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Black-History-Month-DAnews-Tony-La-Dell.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-18 11:12:46
2025-02-18 11:28:09
Meet DA Investigator Tony La Dell
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 02-13-25
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Joshua Brisbane
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Joshua Brisbane
Meet Deputy DA Joshua Brisbane
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
