Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Danielle Hall
, who has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since 2018, when she began an internship at our office. She was officially hired as a Graduate Law Clerk in 2020 and was sworn in as a Deputy District Attorney in June 2021. Danielle was born and raised in Long Beach, California and this was her first job out of law school. She is currently assigned to the
Superior Court Division’s Felony Trial team
, where she handles felony trials and she is also one of the intern/GLC coordinators. A fun fact about Danielle is that she has a background in singing and acting.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Both my parents were DDAs in Los Angeles County. I grew up seeing how passionate they were about their jobs, and I wanted to follow in their footsteps.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Being able to seek justice for victims and make our community safe.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“
Black History
is important to me because it is inseparable from who I am. Throughout my life, I have seen how Black History is not only about the past, but about resilience. Honoring Black history means recognizing both the progress made and the work that remains. During Black History month, I am often reminded of Maya Angelou’s words, ‘I am the hope and the dream of the slave’. That quote resonates deeply with me and serves as a reminder of the legacy I honor and the responsibility I carry.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Danielle-Hall.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-17 17:20:22
2026-02-17 17:20:22
Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche
Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche
Link to: NEWS CONFERENCE: DA Charges Woman with Embezzling Public Opioid Funds for Luxury Lifestyle
Link to: NEWS CONFERENCE: DA Charges Woman with Embezzling Public Opioid Funds for Luxury Lifestyle
NEWS CONFERENCE: DA Charges Woman with Embezzling Public Opioid Funds for Luxury...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
