Meet Paralegal Veronica Flores - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Paralegal Veronica Flores
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Paralegal Veronica Flores.
Veronica was born and raised in San Diego. She graduated from SDSU in 2015 with a bachelor’s degree in Sociology/Social Work.
“I was 39 when I went back to school. It’s never too late!! Si Se Puede!”
As a
Paralegal II
for the
Insurance Fraud Division
, Veronica assists in writing the six different Insurance Fraud Grants that fund that division and help gather, analyze, organize, and accurately report all the data for the multiple statistical reports required for our programs. She also organizes the division’s mass media, outreach programs, and community events they participate in throughout the entirety of San Diego County. Additionally, she is assigned many special projects and duties, such as the maintenance of the division’s arrest warrant database and various restitution projects.
During her spare time, Veronica likes to travel and explore new places. She loves spending time with her family, her three grandchildren, going to concerts, and going to Raider games in Vegas!
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“I did not originally plan to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, and it was pure luck that I started working here. I first applied for a position with the Health and Human Services Agency and luckily the DA’s Office called to interview me for a secretarial position. I was hired and assigned to the Gangs Unit. That is where I started learning more about the DA’s Office and how we pursue justice for our victims. Former Deputy DA Sophia Roach pushed me to become a paralegal, she even wrote a recommendation letter for me that went a long way toward helping me get into the USD paralegal program. After working in the Gangs Unit, I was transferred to the Insurance Fraud Division and gained experience with paralegal duties. Once I got my certification, I applied for and got a paralegal position in the Family Protection Division where I did more case management. Eventually, I returned to the Insurance Fraud Division to assist with the grant program, but I still work on some Family Protection cases, one of which is going to trial this month.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I am a very high (I) – Influence behavior style (people involvement), so I enjoy helping others and being social. Luckily, I know how to multi-task so I’m able to get my work done! I love that there is still the opportunity to learn new things every day so that I continuously improve at my job.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Lately, there is so much negativity in the news media about immigrants, so events like Hispanic Heritage Month are important because they shine a spotlight on the contributions and achievements made by Latinxs across the United States and beyond. Holidays like Mexican Independence Day on September 16
th
, ‘El Grito,’ which is celebrated the day before, are huge holidays that allow us to share our culture and history with others. These kinds of things help foster inclusivity and acceptance in the community.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Veronica-Flores-DAnews-EN.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-27 12:54:51
2024-09-27 13:05:01
Meet Paralegal Veronica Flores
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: 1991 Cold Case Murder Suspect Extradited from El Salvador to Face Charges
Link to: 1991 Cold Case Murder Suspect Extradited from El Salvador to Face Charges
1991 Cold Case Murder Suspect Extradited from El Salvador to Face Charges
Link to: DA’s One Safe Place Hits Milestone of Supporting More Than 6,000 People in North County
Link to: DA’s One Safe Place Hits Milestone of Supporting More Than 6,000 People in North County
DA’s One Safe Place Hits Milestone of Supporting More Than 6,000 People in...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
