Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that a 61-year-old man who killed his sister and nephew and seriously injured his then 86-year-old mother in an August 2024 family dispute, has been sentenced to two terms of life without parole plus 82 years in prison.
William Bushey was convicted by a jury in January of two counts of first-degree murder, with a use of a firearm allegation and the special circumstances for multiple homicides. He was also convicted of premeditated attempted murder and elder abuse with a firearm. In August 2024, Bushey shot and killed his sister, Laurie Robinson, 61, and her son, Brett Robinson, 33, and seriously wounded his mother, June Bushey, who survived but sustained critical injuries during the attack.
“Family violence shatters lives,” DA Stephan said. “When tragedy strikes within the home, the effects are devastating and reverberate far beyond the immediate victims. Our hearts are with the loved ones left behind, and we remain committed to holding violent offenders accountable for their actions.”
The case underscored the profound harm caused when domestic conflicts escalate into violence.
During the trial, Deputy District Attorney Scott Pirrello presented evidence showing that the defendant found himself on the verge of being kicked out of the family home for his poor behavior and he blamed his sister and mother for it. This tension within the family ultimately erupted into the fatal shootings.
Bushey lived with his elderly mother without contributing to the household and interacted very little with family members for over a decade in the family’s Point Loma home. He became upset when his sister moved into the home.
Over the course of nine days, Bushey’s agitated and aggressive behavior became so concerning that police were called to the house twice for disturbances, although none of the reported acts rose to the level of criminal conduct. By the day of the shootings, the family was on the verge of beginning the eviction process for Bushey and had ordered a surveillance system to be installed in the home. The internet system that was based in Bushey’s bedroom was relocated to another area of the home, upsetting him even further.
Bushey confronted his family about the Wi-Fi being turned off and then went into his bedroom and retrieved a shotgun that he had purchased in 2012 but had kept secret. He loaded the shotgun to maximum capacity and armed himself with additional shells and went looking for his family. He fired six rounds from the shotgun as he pursued his mother and sister who fled toward the back patio.  Bushey’s actions resulted in the deaths of his sister and nephew and caused catastrophic injuries to his mother who lost most of her right hand and suffered a “through and through” wound to her left upper abdomen, missing her heart by mere centimeters.
“This defendant was savage and ruthless in the way he hunted down his own family,” DA Stephan said. “I hope today’s sentence brings a measure of justice to the family of the victims and the community at large. I’m proud of the dedication and excellence that Deputy District Attorney Scott Pirrello and the DA team brought to this complex case.”
Preventing and prosecuting domestic violence and elder abuse and supporting victims through the tumultuous criminal justice process is a cornerstone of the work done by the District Attorney’s Offices. Thousands of crime victims are served through the DA’s two
Family Justice Centers
in San Marcos and National City, where they can obtain comprehensive services for victims of domestic violence, elder abuse, sexual assault and other forms of family violence. The office coordinates training for professionals across the county to recognize domestic violence warning signs, partners with community organizations to expand culturally sensitive support services and participates in public awareness and outreach efforts such as Domestic Violence Awareness Month in October.
For more information about available services, visit:
https://ospsandiegocounty.gov/
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Gavel-and-prison-cell.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-25 13:03:18
2026-02-25 13:03:18
Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
Link to: Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
Link to: Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
