DA Honors Holocaust Survivor with First Community Justice Champion Award - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Honors Holocaust Survivor with First Community Justice Champion Awa...
“Stay alive so you can tell the world what they’re doing to us.”
Those were the last words Rose Schindler’s father told her when they last saw each other at Auschwitz II-Birkenau concentration camp. And that is exactly what she did.
Rose survived the Holocaust, met her husband who was also a survivor and immigrated to the United States where they raised their family in San Diego. Now, at 90 years old, Rose has been sharing her and her husband’s story of survival and hope during public presentations and most recently through a published memoir The Two Who Survived.
On Wednesday, Rose spoke in front of more than 200 people at Francis Parker School, sharing her story with a new generation. At the event, District Attorney Summer Stephan also presented the first Community Justice Champion Award to Rose, for her tireless efforts to use her voice to help build a safe and healthy community.
[WATCH video on IGTV]
“In the past year, the DA’s Office has seen an increase in hate crimes driven by anti-Semitism and targeting houses of worship,” said DA Summer Stephan. “Our mission is not only to prosecute crimes, but to prevent them from happening in the first place and Rose Schindler is having a real impact on the community by continuing to share her incredible story of surviving the Holocaust and spreading awareness about the devastating impact of hate.  Mrs. Schindler is the epitome of a Community Justice Champion.”
The District Attorney’s Community Justice Champion Award honors individuals whose work or efforts directly or indirectly support the DA’s mission to build safe neighborhoods in partnership with the community and has an impact on equity, fairness and justice in society.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Rose-Schindler-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-01-09 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:41
DA Honors Holocaust Survivor with First Community Justice Champion Award
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet this four-legged detective
Link to: Meet this four-legged detective
Meet this four-legged detective
Link to: First Responders Get Training to Help Fight Human Trafficking
Link to: First Responders Get Training to Help Fight Human Trafficking
First Responders Get Training to Help Fight Human Trafficking
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
