Bill to Help Victims of Sex Assault Approved in Senate Public Safety Committee - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Bill to Help Victims of Sex Assault Approved in Senate Public Safety C...
A bill sponsored by the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office establishing an amnesty clause to encourage victims and witnesses of sexual assault to testify in court once again received bipartisan support this morning and passed on consent out of the Senate Public Safety Committee. The bill is authored by Assemblymember Tasha Boerner Horvath.
[TWEET THIS]
AB 1927 would provide immunity for victims and witnesses of sexual assault from the consequences of illegal alcohol or drug use occurring at the time of their alleged assault. Higher education institutions nationwide, including the University of California, have already implemented such amnesty clauses on their campuses. Under current law, victims must go through a process that requires them to be compelled to testify in court before it can be granted. This process unnecessarily increases trauma to the victim by requiring them to appear in front of a judge for offenses unrelated to the sexual assault.
“The last thing we want is for the criminal justice system to re-victimize people who bravely come forward to report crimes,” said San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan, the bill’s sponsor. “We can’t continue to have a system which treats victims like criminals for using the very same drugs or alcohol which often are fueling their abusers’ crimes.”
According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) 2018 Uniform Crime Reporting, California had more than 15,000 reported forcible rapes – the highest number in the United States. The Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that this problem is particularly prevalent among college-age students – approximately 80 percent of sexual assaults against college students, and 67 percent of non-students, go unreported.
“We all know too well that sexual assault is the most underreported violent crime in America,” said Assemblymember Boerner Horvath. “Many victims and survivors do not come forward for fear of retaliation, even fear of being blamed for the assault. This bill will empower them to report the abuse without fear of prosecution. Today’s vote brings us closer to extending the same amnesty already provided on college campuses to sexual assault victims and witnesses throughout California.”
AB 1927 will be heard next on the floor of the Senate.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/California-Capitol.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-08-03 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:55
Bill to Help Victims of Sex Assault Approved in Senate Public Safety Committee
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: District Attorneys and US Attorney Join Forces Online to Prevent DV and Child Abuse During COVID-19
Link to: District Attorneys and US Attorney Join Forces Online to Prevent DV and Child Abuse During COVID-19
District Attorneys and US Attorney Join Forces Online to Prevent DV and Child...
Link to: Suspect Arraigned in 33-year-old Cold Case Homicide
Link to: Suspect Arraigned in 33-year-old Cold Case Homicide
Suspect Arraigned in 33-year-old Cold Case Homicide
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
