Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
District Attorney Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
, who has been with the DA’s Office for almost five years, after a long career as a police officer. Her first assignment was at the Juvenile Branch for about two years, and she is currently assigned to the South Bay branch. When she is not busy working, any free time she has is spent with her husband and two children that keep them very busy!
Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in public service?
“A career in public service wasn’t what I initially saw myself pursuing. When I applied to become a police officer, I never thought I had the chance. Fast forward 20 years later, I couldn’t imagine doing anything else. This career has been deeply rewarding and turned out to be a path that fit better than I expected.
My father inspired me to pursue a career in law enforcement. He was also a law enforcement officer when we lived in Florida and retired from his agency. My father was my biggest supporter and was very proud when I decided to become a police officer.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“As a second generation Filipino,
AAPI Month
is very important to me. My grandfather served in the military during WWII and was granted U.S. citizenship, so my mother also became a citizen.  My father and three older sisters were Philippine citizens. Like many Filipinos, my mother and father wanted to move to the U.S. for a better life. Essentially to “live the American dream”.  My mother went through the process of petitioning citizenship for my father and three sisters. After approximately seven years of my mother traveling back and forth, my father and sisters finally came to the U.S. becoming lawful permanent residents and were later naturalized. My father arrived first after a three-year waiting process. Then my sisters arrived four years later.  Apparently, my sisters did not know I existed until they arrived in the U.S., and I was 10 days old!!!
AAPI Heritage Month
is a time to celebrate the history, culture, and contributions of our families and ancestors. It is also a reminder of the struggles, sacrifices, and successes that are overcome by many and help shape our presence. I will always be grateful for the sacrifices my parents made for me and my sisters to give us a better future. Their journey was the reason mine was possible.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Jacqueline-HUrtado-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO-1.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-14 16:27:26
2025-05-15 17:23:22
Meet DA Investigator Jacqueline Hurtado
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Link to: Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman
Link to: Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman
Meet Paralegal Lyka Huffman
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
