Meet Staff Development Coordinator Kevin Chheng - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Staff Development Coordinator Kevin Chheng
In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we are highlighting compelling stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet Kevin Chheng, who works in the Human Resources Department of the District Attorney’s Office as a Staff Development Coordinator. In his role, Kevin administers and maintains the DA’s internal personnel database, he assists with personnel and administrative support services, payroll and he also coordinates student worker recruitment.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“The main reasons I wanted to work here is because our commitment to the community and being a part of an organization that not only serves and protects, but also values giving back to others is really important to me. This is a place committed to giving back to the community and where I know I can make an impact. There is a positive culture that always puts people first and creates an environment where I continue to be challenged and I am able to grow personally and professionally.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“AAPI month is important because it celebrates our diversity and immigration rights in America. It also acknowledges the positive impact that Asian Americans have had here in United States. My cultural background plays a major part in my lifestyle, values, and beliefs. Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) month is important to me because it’s an opportunity to celebrate my cultural heritage, as well as a time to educate each other. Taking the time to learn about different cultures can help us all understand and respect each other, especially during this time of fear and confusion. It can really be an eye-opener on how diverse the world is!”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/AAPI-Heritage-Month-DA-Employees-2.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-05-21 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:25
Meet Staff Development Coordinator Kevin Chheng
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
Link to: DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
Link to: Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Link to: Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
