Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator
District Attorney Summer Stephan has appointed Jorge Duran as new Chief Investigator of the District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation, the law enforcement arm of the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office. The Bureau is made up of eight divisions, including 130 District Attorney Investigators—who are sworn peace officers— as well as Process Servers, Paralegals and Investigative Technicians.
[WATCH THE VIDEO OF HIS SWEARING IN CEREMONY, HERE]
“We are thrilled to have Jorge’s extensive experience, proven leadership, and innovative approach to community outreach heading our investigative team,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “Jorge’s exemplary character and record of outstanding public service have defined his career and I know he will bring a fresh perspective to management of the Bureau of Investigation and to building safe and healthy neighborhoods in partnership with the communities we serve.”
During his time as a Captain at the San Diego Police Department, Duran initiated and implemented the “Better a Block” community outreach program in the Southeastern Division communities. He partnered with local Pastors to host block parties to foster better relationships between his law enforcement officers and the communities they served and to build trust from the top down.  The program served to reduce gang violence in these neighborhoods, and improved community relations so significantly that it is still active today.
“I am very excited and looking forward to working with the Bureau’s dedicated professionals who are committed to providing the highest quality service and building positive working relationships with the communities we serve,” said Chief Investigator Jorge Duran.
Chief Duran served six years as a squad leader in the United States Marine Corps Reserves before joining the San Diego Police Department in 1987.  He was promoted to Detective in Narcotics, Sergeant at the Western division, then Internal Affairs and later Cold Case Homicide, where he provided guidance and had oversight of the investigations into more than 100 cold cases.  He was then promoted to Lieutenant and led the Central, Watch Commander, Gangs, Internal Affairs and Homicide Divisions. He also achieved the rank of Captain where he led the Southeastern Division and Operational Support Divisions.
Twenty of Jorge’s 29 years at SDPD were spent in a leadership capacity as Sergeant, Lieutenant and Captain, and he attended the POST Supervisory Leadership Institute.  While at SDPD, Duran successfully reduced gang-related murders by 80%, initiated problem solving meetings in underserved communities, developed contingencies for planned and unplanned critical incidents such as fires and protest demonstrations, supervised SWAT, Canine, and the Homeless Outreach Team/PERT, he managed the department’s body worn camera program including training, maintenance, inventory and storage of over one thousand body worn cameras, participated in monthly community walks in neighborhoods to learn more about and address public safety concerns, and supervised the allocation of more than 1,000 patrol officers citywide.
After serving more than 29 years at SDPD, Duran joined the District Attorney’s Office in 2017, where he has served in our Superior Court and Special Operations Divisions.  He consults for the US Department of Justice to guide innovative and progressive police policies, and contributed to the publication of Homicide Process Mapping, a widely used DOJ-sponsored guide for optimizing investigation procedures and successful prosecutions.
In addition to Chief Duran’s 31 years of law enforcement experience, he has a Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Administration from San Diego State University, a Master of Arts in Organizational Leadership from Chapman University, and has attended the FBI National Academy in Quantico, Virginia where he received a Graduate Certificate in Criminal Justice Education from the University of Virginia.
[WATCH THE VIDEO OF HIS SWEARING IN CEREMONY, HERE]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Jorge-Duran-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-01-15 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:15
Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in...
Link to: New Chief Investigator is Sworn In
Link to: New Chief Investigator is Sworn In
New Chief Investigator is Sworn In
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
