Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing Students - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing St...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that Jacqueline Ma, 36, the former San Diego County Teacher of the Year who taught at Lincoln Acres Elementary School in National City, has been sentenced to 30 years-to-life in prison for sexually abusing two students.
Ma pleaded guilty on February 5 to two counts of forcible lewd act on a child, one count of lewd act on a child, and one count of possessing child sexual abuse material including allegations substantial sexual conduct and having multiple victims. She had been scheduled to stand trial in April.
“This defendant violated the trust she had with her students in the most extreme and traumatic way possible and her actions are despicable,” DA Stephan said. “Her victims will have to deal with a lifetime of negative effects and her 30-year sentence is appropriate. No child deserves what this defendant did and I hope this sentence brings a measure of justice to the victims, their families and the community that was left reeling from this defendant’s crimes.”
In March 2023, the mother of one of the victims found inappropriate messages on a family tablet between the student and teacher. Ma had groomed the minor for over a year before performing sexual acts on the him when he was 12. The parents did not allow the boy to have social media or his own electronics, but Ma was able to get access to him by setting up an unsanctioned after school program and directing him to communicate with her through a school chat application.
The sex acts perpetrated by Ma occurred in her classroom while the parents believed their son was participating in an afterschool basketball program, and the abuse continued for a period of three months. Further investigation found that Ma had targeted and sexually assaulted another student in 2020. That boy was 11at the time. Ma had been grooming young boys with gifts, food and special attention and even completed their homework for them. She also gained the trust of the parents with her reputation and personal investment in their academic development.
Every student in San Diego County deserves to have a safe and nurturing educational environment, free of sexual and physical abuse. But if that kind of abuse does happen, students, parents and teachers can report it directly to the District Attorney’s Office at
https://www.sdcda.org/helping/studentsafety/
.
Once suspected abuse is reported, the task force members will evaluate and investigate the claim, law enforcement will be notified to investigate allegations when appropriate, and families will be connected with trauma-informed resources and support.
Deputy District Attorney Andrew Hart
prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/Gavel.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-09 16:00:34
2025-05-09 16:00:34
Former Teacher of the Year Sentenced to Prison for Sexually Abusing Students
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prolific Thief Sentenced for Stealing Thousands in Merchandise from Retailers
Link to: Prolific Thief Sentenced for Stealing Thousands in Merchandise from Retailers
Prolific Thief Sentenced for Stealing Thousands in Merchandise from Retaile...
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Meet Deputy DA Shanish Aloor
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
