Meet DDA Helen Kim - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DDA Helen Kim
In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we are highlighting compelling stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Helen Ki
m, who is currently assigned to the felony unit in the North County branch.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“My family had lost our small business during the 1992 riots.  My parents did not know the language or the law, and as a young child, I witnessed my parents stand helplessly on the sidelines as their hopes and dreams were destroyed.  I realized this was a familiar story to many immigrant families.  I vowed to fight for victims who felt invisible and voiceless.  As a deputy district attorney, not only can I directly help those who have been victimized in a specific incident, but also indirectly protect future victims through legislation and case law.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“AAPI month is important to me as it celebrates and honors AAPI who have contributed to the enrichment and progress of this country with sweat, tears, and sacrifice.  Racism against AAPI is not new, but with the recent rise of violence against Asian Americans, AAPI month is especially important to educate against stereotypes, promote diversity, and bring communities together.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/AAPI-Heritage-Month-DA-Employees-Helen-Kim.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-05-25 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:26
Meet DDA Helen Kim
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Link to: Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Workplace Justice Unit wins Achievement Award
Link to: Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Link to: Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
