An Inside Look Into the Criminal Justice System - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
An Inside Look Into the Criminal Justice System
Have you ever wondered how investigators use genealogy to crack cold homicide cases? Or what kind of training police officers get to de-escalate dangerous situations? Beginning in October, the public will get the chance for a behind-the-scenes look into how our local law enforcement agencies work. From the prosecution of opioid dealers to financial crimes against the elderly, the District Attorney’s Office and the San Diego Sheriff’s Department are sponsoring a Citizens’ Academy to help the general public better understand the criminal justice system in San Diego County.  The program is free and lasts six weeks starting Tuesday, October 1st, and each Tuesday night through November 5th.
[TWEET THIS]
“The response to our Citizen Academies has been overwhelmingly positive each time we hold one,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “It’s a unique opportunity for people to get an inside-look at what we do by interacting with some of the incredible prosecutors in our office and hearing directly from subject matter experts in other law enforcement agencies from our region.”
A diverse group of speakers from the DA’s Office and the S.D. Sheriff’s Department will discuss topics ranging from catching a killer in a cold case to the opioid epidemic and financial elder abuse. The Sheriff’s Department will also cover topics including the evolving use of force law and how de-escalation is being used in the effort to reduce officer-involved shootings. The course includes special access to the Sheriff’s Department weapons simulator exercise.
The Citizens’ Academy begins Tuesday, October 1st and ends Tuesday, November 5. Classes will be held from 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. for six consecutive weeks at the County Operations Center in Kearny Mesa.
More information and the required application are available at
www.sdcda.org/office/citizensacademy
. Space is limited. Members of the public wishing to attend the academy should apply by Monday, September 9, 2019.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Citizens-Academy-flyer-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-08-20 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:30
An Inside Look Into the Criminal Justice System
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: An Important Message About Child Abuse
Link to: An Important Message About Child Abuse
An Important Message About Child Abuse
Link to: Stopping Cybercriminals
Link to: Stopping Cybercriminals
Stopping Cybercriminals
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
