Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Supervising District Attorney Investigator Osvaldo Cruz.
Osvaldo has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for 10 years, and he recently celebrated 26 years in law enforcement. He currently serves as the Supervising District Attorney Investigator at the El Cajon Branch, where he supervises, leads, and supports our team of investigators to ensure they provide comprehensive investigative assistance to our Deputy District Attorneys. They also oversee security for the office, ensuring a safe and secure environment for our staff and the public we serve.
Outside of work, he shares both his life and his passion for public service with his wife, Stacie Cruz, who is also an investigator at our office. They are avid Padres fans (especially Stacie), and they both enjoy attending games, traveling when possible, and managing their small businesses.
“We are proud to work together as partners in life, in law enforcement, and in business”, he said. “Staying active in both law enforcement and entrepreneurship keeps me energized and purpose driven.”
Read more about what inspired Osvaldo to pursue a career in public service, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“While my early professional path was focused on corporate business, including a role with Blockbuster as a regional ‘fixer’ for underperforming stores, I found myself increasingly drawn to law enforcement. My corporate role involved working closely with local law enforcement to combat theft, which sparked my interest. I began doing ride-alongs with Chula Vista Police Department and quickly felt a calling. In 1999, I began my law enforcement career as a correctional deputy with the San Diego Sheriff’s Department, and a year later accepted an offer to join Chula Vista Police, where I proudly served for over 15 years in a variety of investigative and leadership roles. My passion for business never left. I continue to own and operate several companies outside of work, but public service has remained my true calling.
Throughout my career, from patrol to specialized investigative units to now supervising a branch, I have always believed in building up others and creating teams that support one another. Whether I am working a case, developing a new business venture, or mentoring someone through a challenge, I stay committed to leading with integrity, compassion, and purpose.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Over the years, I’ve used a personal saying:
‘The cookie jar.’
Each time I make a meaningful impact on a victim or their family, I mentally file that moment away in my ‘cookie jar.’ When I’m facing a tough case or feeling discouraged, I reach into that jar and remind myself of the lives I’ve helped. That’s the best part of my job, knowing I’ve made a difference and carrying those moments with me as motivation to keep going. The cookie jar is full!”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you/why is it important?
“
Hispanic Heritage Month
is meaningful to me because our culture contributes so deeply to our community that its presence is often woven seamlessly into the fabric of daily life here in San Diego. I was born in East Los Angeles and raised in a gang-heavy area of the San Fernando Valley. Thanks to my mother’s unwavering guidance and discipline, I avoided the gang lifestyle that consumed many of my childhood friends. Her strength shaped my path, and my goal has always been to make her proud by being a model citizen. As a first-generation Mexican-American, I believe it is important to show others that with hard work and integrity, nothing is impossible. I take pride in giving back, whether through law enforcement or mentorship in business, and hope to inspire others to aim higher. My personal motto is simple: when I leave, I just want to know I left a dent in the world and that it was a positive one.”
Read more Hispanic Heritage Month stories from the DA’s Office, here.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/DAI-Osvaldo-Cruz-HHM-danews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-10-06 11:15:05
2025-10-15 11:10:42
Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors at Domestic Violence Awareness Event
Link to: DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors at Domestic Violence Awareness Event
DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors at Domestic...
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-09-25: DA Shares Vital Domestic Violence Resources
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-09-25: DA Shares Vital Domestic Violence Resources
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 10-09-25: DA Shares Vital Domestic...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
