DA Co-Sponsors Price Gouging Legislation - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Co-Sponsors Price Gouging Legislation
As Californians struggle to adapt to the havoc created by the COVID-19 pandemic, they shouldn’t have to also worry about being gouged when buying essential items. In an effort to update existing laws and combat
illegal price spikes
happening in San Diego and across the state, DA Summer Stephan has joined Senator Thomas J. Umberg (D-Santa Ana) and Orange County DA Todd Spitzer in debuting new legislation,
Senate Bill 1196, that will tighten California law to assist law enforcement officials in prosecuting instances of
price gouging
that are committed by new sellers during an emergency.
[TWEET THIS]
“Emergencies like the COVID-19 pandemic bring out the best in most Californians, but some businesses take advantage of emergency conditions to gouge consumers with extreme prices for essential goods and services,”
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan
said. “This bill will help close loopholes that allow greedy actors to escape accountability and ensures that California businesses don’t charge abusive prices for health and consumer essentials during this national emergency.”
Currently, under
California Penal Code Section 396
,
price gouging
is illegal and punishable by law during a declared state of emergency. However, the code hasn’t been changed since 1992. For example, current law dictates that a seller has committed price gouging when they charge “a price of more than 10 percent greater than the price charged by that person for those goods or services immediately prior to the proclamation or declaration or emergency.” This section clearly prevents established sellers of specified goods from committing price gouging, but is silent to new sellers in a market place. This amendment clarifies existing law to ensure that the safeguard applies to online purchases.
The San Diego County District Attorney’s Office has received more than 280 reports of potential price gouging, is investigating each complaint and has contacted 60 businesses.
“We are committed to protect Californians from those that prey on our community during the trying times of national or global emergencies. We will continue to use all of the tools at our disposal to prevent price gouging during this, and any future disaster”
Senator Umberg
said
. “There are brave men and women in the health and public safety sectors of our community whose lives are on the line every day. It is immoral and unacceptable to allow some to take advantage of this crisis when so many are fighting to help.”
You can also report
price gouging
to the DA’s Consumer Hotline at 619-531-3507.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Pharmacy-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-04-07 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:48
DA Co-Sponsors Price Gouging Legislation
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Link to: DA Establishes New Hate Crimes Hotline
Link to: DA Establishes New Hate Crimes Hotline
DA Establishes New Hate Crimes Hotline
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
