Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
, who began working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2005 as a Student Worker. He is currently the
Legal Support Manager (LSM)
working in the
Superior Court Division, Administration, Special Operations and Trial Support Services
. As an LSM, he works behind the scenes to ensure our units and divisions run smoothly, resolving issues, answering questions, and finding ways to work efficiently. He also helps with requests such as, needs for programs/access through the Information Technology Department and obtaining quotes to purchase items needed for our Deputy DA’s cases. Read more about what inspired Nathaniel to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Having a career in law enforcement and at the DA’s office is a great opportunity, which I think it could be considered as both direct and indirect ways to serve the community and touch so many lives. It’s good to know that I’m here to make a difference and be a part of improving our society.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of the job is not only knowing our office is seeking justice but also seeing everyone in the DA’s Office grow. I’ve seen people come in as a student workers or Office Assistants and move up. Some of them becoming Deputy DAs, paralegals, supervisors, and LSMs.  It feels good knowing I’ve contributed to the growth and development of staff within the District Attorney’s Office.”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“This is a great question to address. It brings me great pleasure that our community is taking a moment to recognize the
Asian American and Pacific Islander Month
. To me, it means remembering our own history and being proud of who we are. Hopefully, it gets people to explore and discover what Asian American and Pacific Islander cultures have to offer in terms of food, language, and history. We can share all of the positive contributions that our culture has given to the world.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Nathaniel-Amarento-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-19 11:32:09
2023-05-19 11:40:21
Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Link to: Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Link to: Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
Link to: Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
