DA and US Attorney Warn Against Violent Protests - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA and US Attorney Warn Against Violent Protests
U.S. Attorney Robert Brewer and San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan said today their offices will not tolerate violence during inauguration-related protests and will work closely with federal, state, and local partners to aggressively pursue those involved in criminal activity at such events in San Diego and Imperial counties.
[TWEET THIS]
The FBI has received information indicating “armed protests” are being planned in all 50 states and the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20.
“We are issuing the strongest warning possible to anyone who is planning violence in connection with the inauguration,” Brewer said. “If you repeat the despicable behavior we saw at the Capitol last week, and if you disrespect our great democracy by bringing harm to people or property in a display of hatred and rage, the consequences will be swift and strong. You will be found, and you will be charged. Don’t let that become part of your story.”
“I want to be clear that my office will prosecute those who break state laws when they choose violence, hate, assault or vandalism to harm our community—including attacks on fellow citizens and peace officers,” DA Stephan said. “I call on our community members to work hand in hand with law enforcement to keep our neighborhoods safe and to honor our democracy by reporting suspicious activity. If you see something, say something.”
Both U.S. Attorney Brewer and DA Stephan condemned the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol:
“Protesting is an inalienable right recognized by the U.S. Constitution; rioting is a crime,” DA Stephan said. “The insurrection that occurred in the U.S. Capitol last week was a despicable, anti-American attack on the democratic fabric of our nation. It’s a wakeup call that locally, we must work together to keep our community safe, including alerting law enforcement to the threat of violence.”
“The attack on Congress was a shameful and reprehensible affront to our democracy. Our Constitution protects the rights of free speech and assembly, but it does not protect mob violence, threats to harm public officials, assaults on law enforcement officers, or damage to government buildings,” said Brewer.
Anyone witnessing a crime in progress or immediate danger to the public should call 911. If you have witnessed unlawful violent actions, have any information about unlawful violent actions, or have information about the Capitol violence case, the FBI urges you to submit any information, photos, or videos that could be relevant at
fbi.gov/USCapitol
. You may also call ‪1-800-CALL-FBI (1-‪800-225-5324) to verbally report tips and/or information.  If you do not have an attachment but have information to provide, you can also submit your information at
tips.fbi.gov
.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/DA-and-US-Attorney-Warn-against-Violent-Protests-DAnews-ENGLISH.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-01-13 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:11
DA and US Attorney Warn Against Violent Protests
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet the DA’s Crime Prevention Specialists
Link to: Meet the DA’s Crime Prevention Specialists
Meet the DA’s Crime Prevention Specialists
Link to: Nine Inmates Charged in Unemployment Scam
Link to: Nine Inmates Charged in Unemployment Scam
Nine Inmates Charged in Unemployment Scam
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
