DA Initiates Re-sentencing, Releasing Inmate 33 Years Early - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Initiates Re-sentencing, Releasing Inmate 33 Years Early
In 2003, 57-year-old Kent Williams burglarized two North Park homes and stole a car.  He was convicted of the crimes and because of California’s Three Strikes Law, at the time a judge sentenced him to 50 years-to-life in state prison.
[TWEET THIS]
[WATCH THE LIVE STREAM OF THE ANNOUNCEMENT]
Earlier this year, Williams is believed to have become the first person in California to benefit from AB 2942, a new state law authored by Assemblymember Phil Ting (D-San Francisco) which allows local prosecutors to  carefully review old cases in which they believe the prison terms were unjustly harsh. If warranted, they can recommend a new, reduced sentence to a judge, who has the final say. This two-step process resulted in the release of Williams in June, after being incarcerated for nearly 16 years.  The re-sentencing effectively shaved at least 33 years off of his prison term.
After AB 2942 took effect in January, San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan agreed to review the Williams case, which led to his release in June. Prior to the change in the law, only the Board of Parole Hearings or the California Corrections Secretary could initiate and recommend the re-sentencing of a defendant. The re-sentencing is believed to be the first use of the new law in the state of California.
[TWEET THIS]
“Proactively bringing this re-sentencing to a judge was the right thing to do in this case,” said DA Summer Stephan. “We reviewed the defendant’s underlying conviction, disciplinary records, and record of rehabilitation while incarcerated. We also considered and assessed Mr. Williams’ risk for future violence. Ultimately, we believed that circumstances had changed since the defendant’s original sentencing, so we moved forward under the new law in the interest of justice.”
“I’m grateful for the second chance,” Williams said. “I appreciate all the people who kept fighting for me. I’m ready to get a job, reconnect with family and friends, and watch my grandchildren grow up.”
[WATCH THE LIVE STREAM OF THE ANNOUNCEMENT]
Under California’s previous Three Strikes law, which has since been changed by voters, Williams received a life sentence for the two residential burglaries and car theft. His original parole eligibility date was September 25, 2052. He would not have received the same sentence under today’s guidelines.
“I authored AB 2942 because there are many people like Mr. Williams who have been rehabilitated and paid their debt to society for their crimes, but are languishing in our prison system,” Ting said. “Keeping them behind bars is no longer in the interest of justice. I’m thrilled to see how impactful criminal justice reform can be.”
If any review by the District Attorney’s Office results in a recommendation for a sentence reduction, it must still be approved by the Board of Parole Hearings.
Williams will be on state parole for a minimum of three years.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Group-Photo-with-Kent-Williams-DAnews-story.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-08-01 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:29
DA Initiates Re-sentencing, Releasing Inmate 33 Years Early
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Making Changes in Schools
Link to: Making Changes in Schools
Making Changes in Schools
Link to: DA Releases 25-year OIS Analysis
Link to: DA Releases 25-year OIS Analysis
DA Releases 25-year OIS Analysis
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
