DA’s Office Adds Identity Theft Resource Center ‘Live Chat’ to Help Crime Victims - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA’s Office Adds Identity Theft Resource Center ‘Live Chat’ to Help Crime...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that her office is partnering with San Diego-based
Identity Theft Resource Center®
(ITRC) to provide a live chat box on the DA’s
public website
in an effort to support victims of identity crimes.
In adding the ability to live chat with the ITRC’s expert advisors to the DA’s website, victims can receive instant assistance on issues related to identity theft, identity fraud and data breaches. The ITRC identity theft advisors will also provide preventative information and customized plans to address identity concerns.
“We are always looking for ways to prevent crime in San Diego County and by adding this service to our website, in partnership with the Identity Theft Resource Center, we are providing real time support to would-be victims of identity theft,” DA Stephan said. “Identity theft can financially devastate people and businesses, so we want the public to use resources that are available to help them make smart decisions and protect their personal identifying information.”
The ITRC, which was founded in 1999, is a nationally recognized nonprofit organization established to support victims of identity crime. It was established to empower and guide consumers, victims, businesses and the government to minimize risk and mitigate the impact of identity compromise and crime.
“We are thrilled to join with the San Diego DA’s office to help identity crime victims in San Diego County,” said
Eva Velasquez
, President and CEO of the Identity Theft Resource Center. “Our partnership allows us to reach more people in San Diego County who need help recovering from or preventing identity theft or fraud. Victims of identity crimes require unique support to recover from having their personal information misused. It is our mission to provide that.”
More than 7% of the ITRC’s total cases in 2022 are from victims who live in California who have sought help about compromised personally identifiable information due to scams, and the misuse of personal information through existing account takeover. The
Google Voice scam
is the ITRC’s top reported scam from California this year.
When using the chat, ITRC advisors will:
Ask what happened
Ask a series of questions to help determine the scope of the problem
Provide a custom plan of action and steps to take
Advisors will assist victims live in English or Spanish during business hours or through direct follow-up when contacted after hours and on weekends. The ITRC is also committed to providing access to everyone seeking help. Read the
accessibility initiative here
. Anyone can contact an advisor toll-free by using the ITRC live-chat on
idtheftcenter.org
or by calling 888.400.5530.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/ID-theft-chat-Picture1.png
564
1060
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2022-09-15 14:01:51
2022-09-15 14:02:51
DA’s Office Adds Identity Theft Resource Center ‘Live Chat’ to Help Crime Victims
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Murderer Sentenced for 2015 Killing
Link to: Murderer Sentenced for 2015 Killing
Murderer Sentenced for 2015 Killing
Link to: DA-Sponsored Bill That Gives Life Saving Medical Access to Domestic Violence Victims Signed into Law
Link to: DA-Sponsored Bill That Gives Life Saving Medical Access to Domestic Violence Victims Signed into Law
DA-Sponsored Bill That Gives Life Saving Medical Access to Domestic Violence...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
