DA Announces Historic International Partnership with Baja California Attorney General and Family Justice Center - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Announces Historic International Partnership with Baja California Attorney...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today the start of a historic partnership with the Attorney General of the State Baja California, the State of Baja California Justice Center for Women and the DA’s
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center.
There are close to 300 Family Justice Centers world-wide and this agreement makes One Safe Place the first Family Justice Center to have an international partnership. Baja California is the 12th-largest state by area in Mexico.
The DA also announced the renewal of a partnership between the Consul General of Mexico in San Diego and the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for the Mexican Consulate to have presence at
One Safe Place
via community outreach, crime prevention and vital services for the victims we serve. The partnerships were solidified with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) today.
“Criminals who prey on victims for human trafficking, exploitation and violence know no borders,” said DA Summer Stephan, “Thousands cross the border every day between Tijuana and San Diego to go to work, school or visit family and friends and we know that there are many who are victims of crime on either side of the border. With this partnership, we will work together to cross-refer victims and provide vital services on both sides of the border to further regionalize help and ensure they can get to a safe and healing place no matter where they live or work.”
Since opening in July 2022,
One Safe Place
has served over 5,500 individuals, provided legal services to approximately 1,500 people, and received more than 16,000 calls and emails to their various helplines.
One Safe Place
provides support services all under one roof to anyone who has experienced child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, hate crime, elder abuse, human trafficking, violent loss, family violence, or other abuse or victimization. This is all in collaboration with over 100 community organizations and agencies like the Mexican Consulate and now the Attorney General of the State of Baja California and the State of Baja California Justice Center for Women, created to prevent violence against women and girls by providing legal, psychological and social services. Victims will no longer be forced to cross the border, sometimes waiting hours, to get to services. This partnership will ensure culturally-sensitive referrals for victims to access resources where they live, work or where they are most comfortable.
“Violence against women, children, and vulnerable people leaves a deep mark on their lives. It is necessary to develop and implement action protocols to guarantee comprehensive and sensitive care for victims of gender violence,” said the Attorney General of Baja California, Maria Elena Andrade Ramírez. “For this reason, I thank the San Diego County Attorney’s Office for providing a space where Mexican authorities can assist their fellow citizens who are victims of this crime. Baja California and California share a history of fighting against criminals who commit crimes on both sides of the border. We are convinced that working together is an opportunity to strengthen the bonds of friendship and cooperation to ensure that victims receive help to heal their physical and emotional wounds, as well as guarantee justice for them.”
“Considering the reality of gender violence in our state and our close relationship with the United States, strengthening binational cooperation is not only important, it is imperative,” said Magdalena Bautista, Director of the State of Baja California Justice Center for Women. “Violence against women does not recognize borders, so justice and protection should not have limits either. Through this memorandum of understanding, we are taking a significant step to expand our impact and effectiveness in providing care and access to justice for women, and we reaffirm more strongly than ever our commitment to building a future where no woman has to live in fear, and where justice knows no borders.”
The renewal of the MOU with the Mexican Consulate further creates opportunities for collaboration with
One Safe Place
in outreach and prevention work, including the Consulate’s participation in the free informative community event “
Cafecito Con La Comunidad
” which takes place the second Friday of every month at
One Safe Place
. Together, the Mexican Consulate and
One Safe Place
have hosted events on wellness, have made college connections for first generation students and provided Consulate services at
One Safe Place
to meet the needs of the North County community and alleviate transportation barriers for those who are unable to travel to the Consulate’s main office in downtown San Diego.
“Addressing domestic violence requires a collective effort
,” said Alicia Kerber-Palma
, Consul General of Mexico in San Diego.
“It is crucial that we work together – government agencies, community organizations, and local leaders – to provide support to victims and prevent future cases of abuse. Consular assistance and the protection of Mexican communities abroad through the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego constitutes the highest priority of our foreign policy.”
“
The continued partnership with the Mexican Consulate has helped strengthen a bridge with the Latino community and helps enhance their trust in law enforcement when reporting crime and seeking help when victimized,” said DA Stephan. “Together we will continue to work to ensure that victims who seek services at
One Safe Place
, where the Mexican Consulate is an onsite partner, receive culturally sensitive help in their native language that focuses on safety, justice and healing.”
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
is located at 1050 Los Vallecitos Blvd., San Marcos, CA 92069. It is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and on Saturdays from 8 p.m. to 12 p.m.
The State Baja California Justice Center for Women
is located at Avenida Moctezuma #1, Colonia Residencial de Cortez, Camino Verde, 22190 Tijuana, Baja California, with hours of operation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
[VIDEO of One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center.]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/08-30-24-OSP-signing-of-MOU-with-Mexican-Consulate-Attorney-General-and-Justice-Center-of-Baja-California.jpg
1536
2048
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-08-30 12:54:02
2025-10-02 14:01:59
DA Announces Historic International Partnership with Baja California Attorney General and Family Justice Center
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: How to Avoid Romance Scams
Link to: How to Avoid Romance Scams
How to Avoid Romance Scams
Link to: 17 Defendants Indicted for Committing $1.7 Million in COVID Tax Fraud
Link to: 17 Defendants Indicted for Committing $1.7 Million in COVID Tax Fraud
17 Defendants Indicted for Committing $1.7 Million in COVID Tax Fraud
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
