Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that a defendant who led police on a high-speed chase and then shot and wounded a San Diego Police Officer has been sentenced to 47 years-to-life in state prison. Andrew Joseph Garcia, 22, was sentenced today by Judge Aaron Katz. On August 12, Garcia pleaded guilty to premeditated and deliberate attempted murder on a peace officer, assault with a semi-automatic firearm on a peace officer, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, unlawful driving of a stolen vehicle, felony reckless evading and felon in possession of a firearm.
“Peace officers have an incredibly difficult job, and this case demonstrates how in an instant their lives can be in danger—in this instance from a suspect wielding a ghost gun,” said DA Stephan. “Our office is dedicated to prosecuting these types of crimes with the focus they deserve and to holding defendants accountable who would seek to harm officers.”
In December of 2022, Garcia was pursued by police for driving a stolen car and led officers on a chase that lasted more than an hour, on and off freeways at speeds of 90 miles per hour. Garcia eventually fled the car and ran into an apartment complex in Mountain View. Officers followed Garcia into the complex and when they rounded a corner, he opened fire with a ghost gun, firing multiple rounds and hitting one of the officers in the chest and arm. The officer crawled to safety and a standoff in a vacant building ensued, during which time Garcia overdosed on drugs. Officers were able to revive him using Narcan and placed him under arrest.
“Police work is extremely dangerous, yet such a necessary function in our society. Being severely or mortally wounded is a constant threat looming in the hearts and minds of all law enforcement.” Said SDPD Chief Scott Wahl. “Every day, San Diego Police Officers take on the challenge of keeping San Diego safe through much adversity and with pride, honor and integrity. The San Diego Police Department thanks the District Attorney’s office for their hard work in prosecuting this suspect and getting justice for the officer involved. This type of violence against law enforcement or any of our community members will not be tolerated in San Diego.”
Garcia’s sentence includes guilty pleas on a separate gang-related case that occurred in April of 2022, in which he got out of a vehicle in broad daylight and shot at two individuals who were eating burritos on the sidewalk because he mistakenly perceived them to be rival gang members. Garcia fled the scene and remained at large. This incident occurred prior to the attempted murder of a police officer. It remained unsolved until District Attorney Investigator Jonah Conley reviewed social media records and discovered additional evidence related to the crime.
According to the National Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), 378 peace officers were shot in the line of duty last year, the highest number the FOP has ever recorded.
“While some may look at that data and just see numbers, we must remember that they represent fathers, mothers, sons, and daughters who are committed to protecting our neighborhoods every day,” DA Stephan said.
The cases against Garcia were prosecuted by Deputy District Attorneys Clay Biddle and Mary Naoom.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Police-cars.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-13 14:20:16
2024-09-13 14:27:02
Defendant Who Shot Police Officer Sentenced
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-24
Link to: Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Link to: Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
