Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and their contributions to our community. Meet
Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
, who has been working at the DA’s Office since 1997. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career at the DA’s Office?
“In 1994, I started working for the County of San Diego because I wanted to do something in Community Service. I was working as an Office Assistant in Forensic Mental Health. At that time, my only knowledge of a prosecutor’s office was what I had seen on television. I thought it would be a depressing place to work because employees dealt with crime all the time. One of my tasks was picking up DA files from the DA’s office for the psychologists and psychiatrists to review before they evaluated the defendants. Contrary to my belief, I discovered the office actually had high morale. The employees I met had been working there for several years and had no plans to leave. I decided I wanted to serve our community by doing my small part of assisting the Deputy District Attorneys get justice for victims of crime. A bonus would be that I would have a more secure job because this was during the time when our country was supporting Public Safety and doing budget cuts in the mental health field. As soon as I found out there was an opening, I applied and got the job. It has been very fulfilling to have a career that has purpose.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“
Black History Month
is important to me because all Americans should be reminded of the contributions our Black citizens have made to this country. We should never forget the sacrifices they have made to make this country a better place for everyone. It is a reminder that we should not take our rights for granted. They can be taken away. We saw examples of this in 2013, when the Voting Rights Act was changed, and in 2022 when Roe v. Wade was overturned. When Black Americans fought for civil rights, all underrepresented groups benefited.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Norlice-Smith-DAnews-PHOTO.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-14 10:58:44
2023-02-14 10:58:44
Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
Link to: Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
Link to: Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Link to: Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
