Meet Deputy DA An Dang - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA An Dang
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney An Dang
, who joined the DA’s Office in 2021. Prior to that, she spent two years at the San Diego City Attorney’s Office, and before that, she spent three years at the San Francisco District Attorney’s Office. Since joining our team, she’s been a Deputy DA in the
Family Protection Division
.
Read more about what inspired An to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“My mother was a trailblazer among Asian Americans in public service in San Diego. She is my biggest supporter, my hero, and I wouldn’t be where I am without her. I knew I wanted to be in public service, not only to prosecute Family Protection crimes, but to also be that source of support for those who did not have someone like my mom.”
What does AAPI Month mean to you/why is it important?
“
AAPI Heritage Month
is a time to celebrate the AAPI community, not only by honoring our past generations who paved the way for us to be here, but also by empowering the current and future generations to thrive. This month is particularly important to me as a first generation Asian American, and the Co-President of the San Diego chapter of the National Asian Pacific Islander Prosecutors Association (NAPIPA). I hope by celebrating the achievements and diverse and sometimes traumatic histories of AAPIs in the United States, we can foster a greater sense of understanding and inclusion, and all stand together to fight hate.”
An and other Deputy DAs are featured in a recent PSA about hate crimes against the AAPI community that NAPIPA created,
you can watch it here
.
A fun fact about you or what do you enjoy doing in your free time?
“I started surfing at 33 years old, and now I’m obsessed. It’s intimidating to start, but once you overcome the challenges, it is the most healing and happy sport.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/DDA-An-Dang-AAPI-danews-1.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-28 14:28:50
2025-05-28 15:14:34
Meet Deputy DA An Dang
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo
Meet Legal Support Manager Maria Garlejo
Link to: Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
Link to: Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
Meet Confidential Legal Secretary Marilu Glassman
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
