South Bay Pastor Charged for Failing to Report Suspected Sexual Abuse - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
South Bay Pastor Charged for Failing to Report Suspected Sexual Abuse
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that a South Bay pastor has been charged with failure to report known or suspected child abuse in his role as a legally mandated reporter. Eric Manuel Merino, 43, a pastor at Victory Outreach Church in San Ysidro was arraigned in San Diego Superior Court today on one misdemeanor count.
The case against Merino is connected to the sexual abuse of a teenager at the hands of church choir leader Rafael Valentin Magana. Magana, 27, was convicted in April of one felony count of a lewd act upon a child 14 or 15 years of age. He will be required to register as a sex offender and faces up to three years in prison when he is sentenced on June 18.
The sexual abuse was reported to Pastor Merino, triggering his legal duty to notify law enforcement or child welfare services. However, Merino failed to do so.
“Youth in San Diego County deserve to have a safe and healthy environment, free of sexual or physical abuse — whether at school or at church,” DA Stephan said. “When that kind of abuse does happen, it’s critical that those incidents don’t fall through the cracks and that the people in positions of authority follow their duty to report suspected abuse so victims can be supported, and abusers can be held responsible for their crimes. Following the law of mandated reporting can potentially protect another child from being sexually abused by the perpetrator.”
California law mandates that certain professionals, known as
mandated reporters
, must report any suspected cases of child sexual abuse. These individuals include clergy members, teachers, doctors, social workers, police officers, and other professionals who regularly work with children. Under the California Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA), these mandated reporters are legally required to report their suspicions to child protective services or law enforcement immediately, and they must submit a written report within 36 hours. Failure to comply with these reporting requirements can result in criminal penalties, including fines and incarceration. The law is designed to ensure prompt intervention to protect children from harm.
If convicted of the charge, Merino faces up to six months in jail and a $1,000 fine.
The District Attorney’s Office maintains a
Student Safety in School Systems Task Force
, which works to make sure that mandated reporters are complying with their legal obligations to report known or suspected acts of physical and sexual abuse against minors that occur in San Diego County.
This case is being prosecuted by Deputy District Attorney Kristi Gill in the DA’s Special Operations Division. The division and the Task Force review allegations where mandated reporters of sexual or physical abuse fail to comply with their legal duties.
More information about the Task Force and how to report suspected abuse can be found at
https://www.sdcda.org/helping/studentsafety/
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Judgement.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-06-06 11:55:12
2024-06-06 11:55:12
South Bay Pastor Charged for Failing to Report Suspected Sexual Abuse
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Murder Charges in Fentanyl Overdose Death
Link to: Murder Charges in Fentanyl Overdose Death
Murder Charges in Fentanyl Overdose Death
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-06-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-06-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 06-06-24
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
