Three Gang Members Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Multiple Murders - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Three Gang Members Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Multiple Murde...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that the three gang members involved in multiple shootings and killings have been sentenced to life without parole for the murders of three rival gang members.
Defendants Ethan Apan, 33, Kristian Apan, 32, and Ismael Betancourt, 25, were convicted last May after an 11-week jury trial in which jurors found them guilty of multiple counts of murder, conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, shooting at an occupied vehicle, assault by means likely to cause great bodily injury and several other felony counts.
The sentencing breakdown is:
Ethan Apan was sentenced to two terms of life without the possibility of parole plus a term of 132 years-to-life in state prison
Kristian Apan was sentenced to one term of life without the possibility of parole plus a term of 107 years-to-life in state prison
Betancourt was sentenced to two terms of life without the possibility of parole plus a term of 139 years-to-life in state prison
“Today sentencing brings to a close the gang warfare the plagued a small South Bay city with murders, shootings and retaliation,” DA Stephan said. “I am grateful to our prosecution team, Robert Eacret and Abrey Zora,” who expertly navigated the complicated underworld of gang activity to bring justice for these senseless killings.”
During their National City shooting rampage in 2019 and 2020, the trio killed Joaquin Ruiz, Marco Magana, and Juan Galvan, and severely injured Julio Martull, James Mullens, and Adan Duke. The initial killing of Ruiz was in retaliation for a rival killing a week prior. But the hunt down set off a wave of violence that included the three defendants routinely driving into rival gang territory to commit shootings, often mistakenly shooting innocent bystanders.
After a joint investigation between four San Diego Police Department Homicide Teams, the National City Police Department, and the District Attorney’s Office’s Gangs Unit, Ethan Apan, Kristian Apan, Ismael Betancourt, and six fellow gang members were arrested for their involvement and prosecuted for this string of shootings.
Prior to the trial, several co-defendants pleaded guilty and were sentenced for their involvement in the shootings.
Jorge Sanchez, 23 was sentenced to 105 years-to-life in state prison
John Anthony Orozco, 32, was sentenced to 38 years in state prison
Raymond Sandoval, 36, was sentenced to 20 years in state prison
Daisy Diaz, 28, was sentenced to 12 years in state prison
The District Attorney’s Gangs Division prosecutes complex murder cases and other serious crimes perpetrated by violent gang members who terrorize neighborhoods. These cases are handled by one prosecutor from beginning to end – also called vertical prosecution.
Deputy District Attorneys Robert Eacret and Abrey Zora prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Bullet-crime-scene.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-03-06 17:13:22
2026-03-06 17:13:22
Three Gang Members Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Multiple Murders
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
Link to: DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
Link to: DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting Assembly Bill 46
Link to: DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting Assembly Bill 46
DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
