Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that a criminal prosecution involving members of the Hells Angels and other gang members has concluded with 14 defendants being convicted and sentenced for a vicious attack on three young men on a public sidewalk in Ocean Beach. The attack was perpetrated by members of the San Diego Hells Angels along with members of other motorcycle gangs that subordinate to the Hells Angels.
“The successful conclusion of this case demonstrates my office’s commitment to holding organized gangs accountable for a wide range of offenses, including violent hate crimes,” said DA Stephan. “This was an unprovoked, vicious attack that nearly ended in tragedy. Thanks to our dedicated prosecution team for their commitment to delivering justice as this complex case wound its way through the criminal justice system.”
The case resulted from an incident in June of 2023, after a large group of motorcycle gang members had taken over a public sidewalk on Newport Avenue for a “Bike Night.” The victims, all Black men ages 19, 20 and 21, were walking down the street when the defendants brutalized them in an unprovoked attack. Despite their efforts to run away, the victims were caught by the defendant group and punched and kicked in the head and body while they lay on the sidewalk as their assailants used racial epithets.
The Hells Angels is an international organization whose primary purpose is the commission of criminal activity and who’s membership has been known to espouse racist ideology.
During that attack, longtime Hells Angels member Troy Scholder, 45, pulled out a knife and stabbed one victim in the chest, fracturing his sternum, severing an artery, and nearly killing him. At the time of the stabbing, the victim had been curled up on the ground, trying to protect his head. After this attempted murder, Mr. Scholder casually folded up his knife, walked away, and returned to the Hells Angels clubhouse in El Cajon where he was later arrested. The victim survived his injuries, as did the second victim who was knocked unconscious.
Thirteen of the defendants pleaded guilty to felony assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury and admitted allegations that they acted for the benefit of, and in association with their gang. Their sentences ranged from formal probation to custody in state prison. Scholder was convicted by a jury of premeditated attempted murder with a hate crime enhancement, along with additional felony charges, and was sentenced to 21 years-to-life in state prison.
The DA’s Gangs Division prosecutes complex murder cases and other serious crimes perpetrated by violent gang members who terrorize neighborhoods. These cases are handled by one prosecutor from beginning to end – also called vertical prosecution. Cases in this division are expertly navigated by 26 prosecutors and 20 investigators to bring justice to families left in the wake of violence. In 2024, the Gangs Division conducted 23 murder jury trials, which is more than 40% of the total murders tried in the DA’s office. The division also prosecuted other cases including kidnapping for rape, assault with great bodily injury, robbery, carjacking and possession of illegal firearms, such as ghost guns, by gang members.
Deputy District Attorney Miriam Hemming prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Gavel-and-prison-cell.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-11-06 12:24:19
2025-11-06 12:27:21
Hells Angels Assault Case Concludes
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Elder Fraud Prevention: Spot the Red Flags Before It’s Too Late
Link to: Elder Fraud Prevention: Spot the Red Flags Before It’s Too Late
Elder Fraud Prevention: Spot the Red Flags Before It’s Too Late
Link to: Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend
Link to: Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend
Second-Degree Murder Conviction for Defendant Who Killed Ex-Girlfriend
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
