Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
, who has worked at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for 25 years and is the Chief of the Insurance Fraud and
Workplace Justice Division
. She runs a diverse and complex division made up of seven units, which are grant funded through the California Department of Insurance to investigate and prosecute insurance fraud violations. The division has a
newly established unit
which investigates and prosecutes claims of workplace violations. Sherry’s job also includes grant writing, managing budgets and participating in state and local audits.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“I knew that I wanted to make a difference in people’s lives,” Sherry said. “Underserved communities have historically been poorly represented in the District Attorney’s Office and in the Superior Court. I believed that if I could influence people both in and outside the office, we could see a culture shift of acceptance and growth in the criminal justice system which includes fair representation and just determinations.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“As a child, Black History Month was an awkward and limited acknowledgement and recognition of Blacks and African-Americans to this country. Now, I truly appreciate the opportunity to discuss and highlight annually the sacrifices and contributions my ancestors made to build the foundation of this great country. As more and more of us learn the history of both enslaved people and underrepresented communities, we see how all of our family members have contributed to the fabric of our diverse society.”
See their stories too:
Paralegal Nicole Runyon
Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Chief Deputy District Attorney Dwain Woodley
Crime Prevention Specialist Danielle Fair
District Attorney Investigator Christopher Everett
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Black-History-Month_-DA-Employees.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-02-23 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:17
Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: New Workplace Justice Unit to Protect Workers’ Rights
Link to: New Workplace Justice Unit to Protect Workers’ Rights
New Workplace Justice Unit to Protect Workers’ Rights
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett
Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
