Meet Supervising I.T. Engineer Arvin Viernes - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Supervising I.T. Engineer Arvin Viernes
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Supervising I.T. Engineer Arvin Viernes
. His ITD network and infrastructure team are the caretakers of the DA’s datacenter which provides connectivity between the I. T. devices used within the office and branch sites. They manage the central storage for all DA files and take care of the servers that allow staff access to the Wi-Fi, DA criminal applications, internet, and email among other resources.  Arvin has been with the DA’s office since 2006 and prior to joining the DA, worked as Sr. I.T. Systems Administrator for the Coast Community College District in Huntington Beach. Read more about what inspired Arvin to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“Although my career path was not in law enforcement, I.T. service in the DA’s office translates to service to my hometown. I’ve lived in San Diego since my early childhood after immigrating to the Unites States from the Philippines. Although I really enjoyed working in Huntington Beach, I always knew that San Diego was/is home and is where I wanted to raise a family. When the opportunity became available to serve my home community through the DA’s office, I was 100% on board and fortunate to be accepted into the DA family.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“I think
AAPI Heritage Month
is a great opportunity for the United States to showcase what this country is all about. The ideas, ideals, and cultural contributions offered by Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders help shape the face of San Diego along with the many other communities across the country. I believe that cultural celebrations like
AAPI Month
greatly help to highlighting the diversity of this nation, promote greater understanding, and encourage acceptance of all cultures as Americans.”
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AAPI-month-DAnews-4.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-09 08:00:52
2024-05-28 12:17:33
Meet Supervising I.T. Engineer Arvin Viernes
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Melissa Spinelli
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Melissa Spinelli
Citizen of Courage 2024: Melissa Spinelli
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Justine Santiago
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Justine Santiago
Meet Deputy District Attorney Justine Santiago
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
