DA, FBI, and HHS-OIG, Shut Down Medical Center Committing Healthcare Fraud - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA, FBI, and HHS-OIG, Shut Down Medical Center Committing Healthcare F...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced criminal charges today against  Kim Huynh, 51, who was bilking Medicare and insurance companies through phony billing practices, money laundering and practicing medicine without a license. In all, the defendant billed more than $11 million for tests and treatment not covered under insurance plans.
Huynh directed the medical billers in her clinic, Tubi Connect, Inc., to submit claims of service for EEGs, which are scans used to diagnose conditions such as epilepsy or seizure disorders a service they did not provide, rather than the quantitative electroencephalogram (QEEG) scans her clinic performed. QEEGs are not covered by Medicare or private supplemental insurance, except under limited and exceptional circumstances.
“When someone steals millions of dollars from our healthcare system, it diverts critical resources away from patients who truly need care and undermines public trust,” DA Stephan said. “This defendant brazenly billed more than $11 million in fraudulent claims, laundered the proceeds, and operated a clinic that was practicing medicine without a license. That kind of deception puts consumers at risk from both the misappropriation of taxpayer dollars and patient safety at risk. Our DA’s office worked tirelessly alongside the FBI and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) to uncover this scheme and hold the defendant accountable. Those who exploit the healthcare system for personal gain will be investigated, prosecuted, and brought to justice.”
Huynh owned and operated medical centers located in San Diego, Orange County and Texas, called Tubi Connect, Inc. The clinics provided medical care to neurodivergent senior citizens through neurofeedback therapy, an unproven experimental form of therapy in which a patient undergoes multiple quantitative electroencephalogram scans of their brain with the intent of retraining their brains to normalize activity. The scans were performed by unlicensed technicians, and the results were “interpreted” by clinic co-owner, Iman Shirali, who would present himself as doctor, though he had no medical training or certification. Shirali has since died.
“The extensive fraud perpetrated against our health care system allegedly committed by Kim Huynh is unconscionable,” said TJ Holland, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the FBI San Diego Field Office. “The FBI is committed to investigating fraud against the government, to include health care fraud, using all our available resources. Today’s charges are the result of FBI San Diego and our partners at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office working together to uncover Huynh’s criminal scheme and hold her accountable.”
By claiming to provide the services that she did not render, Huynh fraudulently billed Medicare over $10 million resulting in more than $4.6 million being paid. Private insurance carriers were billed for more than $600,000 resulting in more than $100,000 being paid.
“Billing Medicare for unproven treatments, fabricated neurological testing, and services performed by unqualified individuals is a serious breach of trust,” said Robb R. Breeden, Special Agent in Charge of the Los Angeles Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG). “HHS‑OIG will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to hold accountable those who exploit vulnerable beneficiaries and defraud federally funded health care programs.”
Huynh was arrested on March 11. She pleaded not guilty at today’s arraignment. Her bail was set at $750,000 and will be in court again on March 18, 2026, for a bail review hearing. If convicted, she faces 14 years in prison.
This case is the result of a two-year joint investigation between the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General (HHS-OIG). Deputy District Attorney Jonathan Fraenkel is prosecuting this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Court-Gavel-and-book.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-03-13 15:46:13
2026-03-13 15:48:32
DA, FBI, and HHS-OIG, Shut Down Medical Center Committing Healthcare Fraud
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting Assembly Bill 46
Link to: DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting Assembly Bill 46
DA Calls on Legislature to Fix the Mental Health Diversion System by Supporting...
Link to: Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired Products
Link to: Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired Products
Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired ...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
