DA Honors Four Local Heroes at 36th Annual ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Honors Four Local Heroes at 36th Annual ‘Citizens of Courage’ Award...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
honored four brave individuals today during the DA’s 36
th
annual Citizens of Courage Awards, held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week. This year, National Crime Victim’s Rights Week was observed April 19-25. As part of this annual event, the DA not only highlights the courageous individuals who survived or witnessed a crime, but also the important services that are offered through the largest provider of victim services in the county, the DA’s Victim Assistance program and One Safe Place: The San Diego County Family Justice Centers, which are a project of the DA’s Office.
“Every year, the Citizens of Courage Awards remind us that courage lives within each of us,” DA Stephan said. “The individuals we honor today demonstrate extraordinary strength and resilience in the face of crime, danger and adversity, inspiring us all to stand up for one another and for what is right. This event also shines a light on the many victims our office serves every day in the pursuit of justice and underscores the importance of protecting victims’ rights — core to our mission. I am deeply grateful for the unwavering dedication of our Victim Advocates, whose compassion and commitment make a meaningful difference in the lives of those we serve.”
The DA’s
Victim Services Division
strives to reduce the trauma, fear and pain experienced by victims, witnesses, and family members affected by crime. The Victim Assistance Program provides comprehensive services to all crime victims, while Victim Advocates are focused on providing assistance to victims of violent crimes. In 2025, they assisted
8,523
new crime victims. This assistance included
506
crisis interventions and
10,169
referrals to community resources.
Additionally, our office serves victims even before a police report is made, at
One Safe Place: The San Diego County Family Justice Centers
, which have two locations;
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center,
which opened in San Marcos in July 2022 and
One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center
in National City, which opened in October 2025. Combined, the DA’s two family justice centers have served over
12,587
victims and survivors by providing comprehensive support services under one roof. These visits include services such as case management, restraining orders, trauma therapy, forensic exams, connections to shelter and more.
This year, the Citizens of Courage Awards ceremony was held at the Liberty Station Conference Center in front of more than 300 invited dignitaries, elected officials, community leaders and guests. Below are the 2026 Citizens of Courage recipients and links to videos telling their stories:
Marcus Long
–
When violence erupted, Marcus bravely stepped in to stop a brutal attack and through his quick thinking helped locate the suspect.
Alyssa
–
After surviving sexual assault by a trusted church leader and attempts to cover up by the church she trusted, Alyssa chose resilience over silence, rebuilding her life with courage and refusing to let the trauma define her.
Linda Marshall
–
Targeted in a contractor scam, Linda has remained steadfast and determined throughout the ongoing prosecution, demonstrating unwavering courage in her pursuit of justice.
Harmeena Omoto
–
When confronted with a serious school threat, Principal Omoto responded with calm authority and decisive leadership to protect her students and staff in her school and in court proceedings.
In a special moment, the DA marked seven years since
Lori Gilbert-Kaye
was viciously murdered while praying at the Chabad of Poway Synagogue by presenting her courageous daughter Hannah with a Citizens of Courage award in memory of her mother.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/04/Citizens-of-Courage-2026-Group-Photo-2-scaled.jpg
2560
1707
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-04-24 16:28:46
2026-04-24 16:36:35
DA Honors Four Local Heroes at 36th Annual ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Testifies in Support of AB 1959 to Close Dangerous Resentencing Loophole as Exposed by the Santana High School Shooter Case
Link to: DA Testifies in Support of AB 1959 to Close Dangerous Resentencing Loophole as Exposed by the Santana High School Shooter Case
DA Testifies in Support of AB 1959 to Close Dangerous Resentencing Loophole...
Link to: Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to Prison
Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to P...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
