Meet Administrative Analyst Carmen Olut - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Administrative Analyst Carmen Olut
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Administrative Analyst Carmen Olut
, who has been with the DA’s Office since 2014.
Tell us a little bit about yourself, your position and how you got where you are?
I was born in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico. I am the second of three girls. I moved to San Diego for college (SDSU). I have a BA in Political Science, MA in International Relations, and a Paralegal Certificate. I first started in the County at the Assessor’s Office and then the Health and Human Services Agency. I am currently an Administrative Analyst II in the Financial Management Unit but started as a Legal Support Assistant I in reception.
I thought helping victims or their families in fighting for justice was a very rewarding job. Although I am not a prosecutor, there are many ways someone can contribute to helping victims and keeping our community safe. In my case, I can assist with managing Insurance Fraud grant funds and purchasing needs that can arise.
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
It is important to recognize this month and the many achievements that Americans with Hispanic backgrounds have done. Personally, since both of my kids were born here, I would like for them to be proud and knowledgeable of half of their culture/background (their other half is Turkish) and for them to also be able to identify themselves as American and value the greatness that comes with that.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Carmen-Olut.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2021-10-13 09:00:47
2021-10-06 21:01:47
Meet Administrative Analyst Carmen Olut
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Link to: Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Link to: DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
Link to: DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
