Meet Senior Human Resources Officer Desiree Gonzalez - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Senior Human Resources Officer Desiree Gonzalez
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Senior Human Resources Officer Desiree Gonzalez.
Desiree has worked for the County for 24 years, of which 22 of those years have been at the DA’s office. She started off as a student worker and worked her way up to Senior Human Resources Officer for the Human Resource Management Unit. Her wide range of duties include position management, recruitment, transfers, human resources policies and procedures, Covid management, workplace accommodations, workers’ compensation, leave administration, benefits administration, employee relations, performance appraisals and appeals, discipline, and performance management.
When she’s not busy working, she spends her free time with her family and two little dogs, a Yorkiechon and a Pomapoo.  She also loves travelling because it gives her the opportunity to discover and appreciate different cultures. Read more about what inspired Desiree to pursue a career in public service, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“My grandmother impressed upon me the importance of giving back to the community.  My mother had a career in public service as a public-school teacher for 32 years and my aunts and uncles also retired from careers in public service. They were excellent role models.  I could see how much happiness they derived from serving the public and that inspired me to follow that same path.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of the job is being able to interact and engage with employees at all levels and being able to positively impact people’s careers. I also love the variation of the work; no two days look the same.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you/why is it important?
“It is a time for me to connect to my heritage and honor the accomplishments and contributions of Latinos to our community. I was raised to be proud of my heritage and celebrate our cultural holidays. It is important to recognize where you come from and encourage others to achieve their goals.”
Read more Hispanic Heritage Month stories from the DA’s Office, here.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/Desiree-Gonzalez-HHM-danews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-09-29 09:00:13
2025-10-15 11:11:15
Meet Senior Human Resources Officer Desiree Gonzalez
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-25-25: Prop 36 Discussion with Businesses
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-25-25: Prop 36 Discussion with Businesses
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-25-25: Prop 36 Discussion with...
Link to: Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Casinos
Link to: Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Casinos
Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Cas...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
