Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
, who was born and raised in San Diego.
While at San Diego State University, she worked with teens at Juvenile Court and Community Schools, adolescents with disabilities as a teacher’s aide, and the Probation Department’s Repeat Offender Prevention Program (ROPP). After graduating from SDSU, she first joined the DA’s Office in 1999 as an Account Services Representative with Child Support Services, then served nearly 20 years as a Deputy Sheriff with the San Diego Sheriff’s Office.  Then, she returned to the DA’s Office in 2019 as a District Attorney Investigator in Family Protection. She is currently a DA Investigator with the Sexual Assault Felony Enforcement (S.A.F.E.) Task Force in the Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Division, where she oversees enforcing sex offender registration laws and enhancing public safety. She monitors registered offenders, conducts compliance checks, supports public notifications, and assists Deputy District Attorneys with Sexually Violent Predator (SVP) investigations, court hearings, and Community Safety Team meetings for conditionally released SVPs.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“
Growing up amid prevalent gang violence, I saw how it impacted good families and neighbors in my community. My student role on Probation’s ROPP team gave me firsthand insight into juvenile offenders’ underlying challenges, motivating me to be part of the solution. I chose law enforcement to protect and uplift my community, and the DA’s Office to fight for victims of child abuse, sexual assault, and domestic violence—honoring my family’s legacy of service through fairness and justice.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“One of the most meaningful parts of my job is connecting with survivors of sexual assault and child abuse. Many Sexually Violent Predator (SVP) cases reach back decades, with some survivors victimized as children. Being trusted with their stories and healing journeys is deeply humbling. Law enforcement has made tremendous progress—embracing new technology, trauma-informed practices, and stronger victims’ rights protections. I prioritize making survivors feel seen, heard, and in control, while supporting Deputy District Attorneys as they fight for justice, accountability, and community safety. What stays with me most are moments when survivors share their strength and the lives they’ve built beyond their trauma.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“For me,
Black History Month
is both celebration and reflection. As a Black woman of Japanese and African American roots in law enforcement, it symbolizes strength, perseverance, and progress. I take deep pride in my family’s legacy—my father raised in the Jim Crow South, my grandfather as one of Savannah’s first Black dentists, and my uncle’s Great Migration journey to New York Supreme Court judge. Their resilience inspires my 26 years of service and commitment to fairness, integrity, and representation. Black History Month honors trailblazers who opened doors and challenges us to carry their legacy forward through our work, justice, community leadership, and service.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Helen-Williams.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-27 16:00:35
2026-02-24 18:57:06
Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
Link to: Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
Link to: DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
Link to: DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
DA Doubles Down on Consumer Protection
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
