Meet Legal Support Assistant Alejandra Monarrez Vargas - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Assistant Alejandra Monarrez Vargas
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Legal Support Assistant Alejandra Monarrez Vargas
, who has worked with us since 2017.
She was born and raised in San Diego. Before working at the DA’s Office, Alejandra was a food cart assistant at SeaWorld, and she promises that she made the best churros and popcorn in the park! She joined our office in 2017 as a Student Worker in the Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Division. After a year, she was hired full-time and spent four years in the Economic Crimes Division – she likes to say they raised her!
Currently, she is a
Legal Support Assistant III for the Case Issuing Unit
in the North County Branch, where one of her main duties is training new hires on their tasks. Case Issuing is a very detail-oriented unit (the North County Branch reviews 1,400 reports per month!), so close one-on-one training is essential, and she is always happy to answer questions. She is also responsible for ensuring that her team processes their cases before their tight deadlines every day.
During her free time, Alejandra enjoys going to the gym, attends music festivals/concerts with friends, and plays around with her two huskies Lobo and Luna.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“My sister Gloria! She has been working for Juvenile Court since 2001. When I was in elementary school, she took me to the courthouse during ‘bring your family to work day.’ I got a tour of the courthouse, an explanation of how the criminal justice system works, and even got to take a picture on a judge’s bench with a robe and gavel! I became interested in exploring a legal career ever since.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Helping out my staff! My personal goal is to create a prospering work environment where employees are happy to come to the office. I genuinely enjoy figuring out new ways to make our office run smoother because in the end, it will benefit staff, DAs, and the public.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Personally, Hispanic Heritage Month to me is about remembering the life values that come from my family. Growing up, we would take yearly vacations to a small town called Laguna Grande in Zacatecas, Mexico, where I learned how important community is. Everyone in town knew each other, had friendly manners, and was always willing to assist one another. I bring these values with me to the office in hopes of creating an inviting community just like Laguna Grande.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Alejandra-Monarrez-Vargas-DAnews.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-10-04 14:21:54
2023-10-04 14:22:05
Meet Legal Support Assistant Alejandra Monarrez Vargas
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Marks the Start of Domestic Violence Awareness Month
Link to: DA Marks the Start of Domestic Violence Awareness Month
DA Marks the Start of Domestic Violence Awareness Month
Link to: Child Molester Who Fled to Asia Sentenced in Sex Abuse Case
Link to: Child Molester Who Fled to Asia Sentenced in Sex Abuse Case
Child Molester Who Fled to Asia Sentenced in Sex Abuse Case
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
