Taking the Fight Against Human Trafficking to Africa - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Taking the Fight Against Human Trafficking to Africa
Foreign countries seek the expertise of San Diego County’s law enforcement from time to time and recently, the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office brought its experience in fighting human trafficking to Africa.
[TWEET THIS]
Two prosecutors from the DA’s Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Unit recently returned from a trip to Nigeria where they spoke with attorneys there about how the San Diego District Attorney’s Office is confronting sex trafficking.
Deputy District Attorneys Mary-Ellen Barrett and Marisa Di Tillio traveled to Nigeria along with the San Diego County Public Defender’s Office’s Deputy Public Defender Jesus Romero, who sat on a panel about reforming the Nigerian judicial system to something similar to what we have in the United States. The trip was sponsored and paid for by the Conference of Western Attorneys General.
Deputy DA’s Barrett and Di Tillio presented at two separate symposiums, one on transnational crime and wildlife trafficking, and the other on the effective administration of law. Their presentations focused on human trafficking and barriers to investigating transnational crime, as well as emerging trends in proving cases and efficiency in administration of justice. They also sat on panels where they answered questions about the task force and team approach to the investigation of crimes that traverse borders, which was a topic of great interest to the attendees.
The second symposium was attended by state lawyers for Cross Rivers state, including their Attorney General. Cross Rivers state, which is about twice the size of San Diego County, has 22 lawyers and 1,000 pending cases, both civil and criminal.
“By the end of the day, a comradery between prosecutors from different countries and different systems developed,” said Deputy District Attorney Mary-Ellen Barrett. “We are all trying to achieve justice for victims and for suspects. I was struck by how lucky we are at this office to have the resources and leadership to move the fight for justice forward.”
Deputy DA’s Barrett and Di Tillio were able to provide attendees with proof that the rule of law works to ensure an orderly and fair society and see that it is possible and productive to work with the defense to ensure better outcomes on cases.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/CWAG-trip-DAnewscenter-story.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2018-05-10 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:17:54
Taking the Fight Against Human Trafficking to Africa
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: San Diego DA and Los Angeles DA Join Forces to Tackle Mental Health Issues
Link to: San Diego DA and Los Angeles DA Join Forces to Tackle Mental Health Issues
San Diego DA and Los Angeles DA Join Forces to Tackle Mental Health Issues
Link to: Regional Leadership Institute Wins Award
Link to: Regional Leadership Institute Wins Award
Regional Leadership Institute Wins Award
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
