Campo Man Convicted of Felony Animal Cruelty for Neglecting His Dog’s Injury - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Campo Man Convicted of Felony Animal Cruelty for Neglecting His Dog’s I...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said that Osvaldo Deleon, 61, was sentenced today to 132 days in custody, two years formal probation, and ordered to abide by several conditions for failing to seek medical attention for his dog’s severely injured leg. The dog’s hind leg had an open wound with exposed bone when officials with the county’s Department of Animal Services (DAS) encountered it. The dog was taken into a veterinarian’s care and ultimately her leg had to be amputated.
Deleon was found guilty by a jury of one count of felony animal abuse on October 15. At today’s sentencing Superior Court Judge Herbert Exarhos ordered Deleon not to own animals for 10 years, waive his rights to searches under the Fourth Amendment, and complete a cruelty prevention and education curriculum.
“Our office remains firmly committed to holding individuals accountable for all forms of animal abuse, cruelty, and neglect,” said DA Stephan. “We are dedicated to being a voice for animals who cannot speak for themselves and to seeking justice on their behalf. Working closely with our law enforcement partners and the community, we strive not only to identify and prosecute abuse but also to prevent it before it happens.”
“This sentencing reinforces our commitment to protecting the health, safety and welfare of people and animals in unincorporated San Diego County,” said County Animal Services Director Vaughn Maurice. “Eagle’s case shows that these matters are taken seriously and we appreciate the District Attorney’s work in pursuing justice. With community support and our officers’ dedication, we can respond quickly, investigate thoroughly, and ensure animals receive the care and protection they need.”
In the past year, the District Attorney’s Office has filed animal cruelty-related charges in 48 criminal cases.
In December of last year, 61-year-old Todd Schuster was convicted of one count of felony animal cruelty and sentenced to two years in jail for viciously kicking a dog during a road rage incident and then running over the animal with his vehicle, killing it.
Previous animal cruelty-related prosecutions have included an elderly couple who hoarded 92 Yorkshire Terrier and Yorkie-mix dogs in a feces-filled home in Poway and a 31-year-old Oceanside resident who received an eight-year prison sentence for torturing and killing at least 10 cats. The defendant adopted the cats from the San Diego Humane Society and through Craigslist, subjecting them to severe abuse.
In 2018, the DA launched the office’s first-ever Animal Cruelty Prosecution Unit, which provides prosecutorial consistency countywide, investigative support and dedicated expertise for animal abuse cases. Since there is a strong link between animal abuse and violent crimes against people – particularly children and domestic violence – the unit resides within the DA’s Family Protection Division. The unit works closely with police, Sheriff’s deputies, DAS, animal control officers, the San Diego Humane Society, and others to investigate and prosecute animal cruelty cases vertically (one prosecutor handling the case from beginning to end.)
To report suspected animal abuse in San Diego County, you can contact the following agencies depending on the location and type of incident:
San Diego Humane Society
– They handle animal cruelty investigations in most of San Diego County, including the cities of San Diego, Escondido, Imperial Beach, Poway, Santee, and others.
Call:
619-299-7012 (ext. 2244)
Online: Report Animal Cruelty
County of San Diego Department of Animal Services
– Covers unincorporated areas and certain contract cities.
Call:
619-767-2675
Online: County Animal Services
Local Law Enforcement
– If an animal is in immediate danger, call
911
or your local police department.
The Osvaldo case was prosecuted by
Deputy District Attorney Maura Duffey
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Eagle-DAnews-1.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-11-14 16:32:10
2025-11-14 16:32:10
Campo Man Convicted of Felony Animal Cruelty for Neglecting His Dog’s Injury
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 11-13-25 | DA Visits Businesses to Share Prop 36 Resources
Link to: DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 11-13-25 | DA Visits Businesses to Share Prop 36 Resources
DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 11-13-25 | DA Visits Businesses to Share...
Link to: More Repeat DUI Offenders Responsible for Fatal DUI Numbers
Link to: More Repeat DUI Offenders Responsible for Fatal DUI Numbers
More Repeat DUI Offenders Responsible for Fatal DUI Numbers
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
