DA Lawyer Makes Women's Hall of Fame - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Lawyer Makes Women’s Hall of Fame
Lilia Garcia has spent much of her life promoting equality and justice on both sides of the border, mentoring young Latina attorneys and training lawyers in Mexico and the U.S. On Sunday she will be inducted into the Women’s Hall of Fame at the 18th annual ceremony recognizing women from San Diego whose actions and accomplishments have visibly made a difference for women in the community. Garcia, 65, is an attorney in the San Diego County District Attorney’s Appellate Division. Since 2013, she has lent her expertise to complex matters related to criminal writs and appeals handled in the Superior Court, Court of Appeal, and the California Supreme Court.
[TWEET THIS]
Garcia is also an instructor on oral advocacy programs to support Mexico’s implementation of an oral, adversarial criminal justice system. In 2005, she co-founded Latinas in the Law, a mentoring program for young Latina lawyers and law students. In her role as a mentor, she has been part of the positive change that increased the number of diverse attorneys in the legal profession.
“Lilia is a role model in the DA’s Office and the community. Her career in public service has been devoted to justice and committed to the highest ideals of civility and professionalism in the law,”
District Attorney Summer Stephan
said. “Ultimately, Lilia’s legacy in San Diego County will be in the hundreds of lives she touched by selflessly mentoring and supporting young people from diverse backgrounds and engaging them in the legal profession.”
As a past president of the San Diego La Raza Lawyers Association, Garcia co-founded the association’s scholarship fund, which since 2007, has awarded more than $341,000 to deserving law students. She has served on the boards of the Mexican American Business and Professional Association, Catholic Charities and Bayside Settlement House, as a school board member of Marian (Mater Dei) Catholic High School, and as an alumni board member of the University of San Diego Law School. She earned her law degree from the University of San Diego School of Law in 1981. Before joining the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office she served as a deputy and supervising deputy attorney general in the California Attorney General’s San Diego office for 32 years.
The Women’s Hall of Fame came about in 2001, when four co-hosts – Women’s Museum, the San Diego County Commission on the Status of Women, the Women’s Studies Department at San Diego State and the Women’s Center at UCSD – organized the first event to honor and acknowledge women who have made outstanding volunteer contributions and significantly added to the quality of life in San Diego County.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Lilia-Garcia-DANewsCenter-Photo.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-03-01 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:18
DA Lawyer Makes Women’s Hall of Fame
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Think Twice Before Checking in on Social Media
Link to: Think Twice Before Checking in on Social Media
Think Twice Before Checking in on Social Media
Link to: Hundreds Removed from Gang Injunction Lists
Link to: Hundreds Removed from Gang Injunction Lists
Hundreds Removed from Gang Injunction Lists
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
