Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
.
Norma began her career with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2015 as a receptionist in the East County Division. During her time as a support staff, she performed a variety of duties in the Misdemeanor Unit and eventually transitioned to the Felony unit, where she served as lead. In December of 2020, she made the difficult decision to leave a job that she truly loved to pursue her dream of becoming a prosecutor. During law school she returned to the office as an intern and a Graduate Law Clerk where she worked in several units including, Narcotics, Gangs, Family Protection, and Sex Crimes. In December of 2024, she achieved her goal and proudly rejoined the office as
a Deputy District Attorney
and is currently assigned to the
East County Division
.
When she’s not busy working as a prosecutor, Norma spends her free time with her two children. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career in public service, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“My career path was shaped by an early personal experience with the justice system as a juvenile. At that time, the San Diego County District Attorney’s office took my life circumstances into consideration and gave me an opportunity to change my life. This experience also sparked an interest in the law.
During my time as a Legal Support Assistant with the office, I was assigned to the arraignment and readiness department where I assisted prosecutors in court. Daily, I witnessed Deputy District Attorneys in the courtroom work diligently to protect victims, the community, and to ensure justice. This deeply inspired me and quickly realized that I wanted to devote my life to public service. I am grateful to now be doing so for the same office that never gave up on me.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“What I love most about being a prosecutor is the ability to protect the community I grew up in, while also advocating for victims who need a voice.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you/why is it important?
“
Hispanic Heritage Month
is a time to celebrate our accomplishments and using them to inspire the next generation to achieve their dreams.”
Read more Hispanic Heritage Month stories from the DA’s Office, here.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/DDA-Norma-Flores-HHM-danews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-10-13 14:57:37
2025-10-15 11:12:03
Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Issues Public Safety Warning About Dangers of Nitrous Oxide-Related DUIs
Link to: DA Issues Public Safety Warning About Dangers of Nitrous Oxide-Related DUIs
DA Issues Public Safety Warning About Dangers of Nitrous Oxide-Related DUIs
Link to: District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting Victims of Crime
Link to: District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting Victims of Crime
District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting Victims...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
