Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
, who was born and raised in Santa Cruz, California.  However, during her summers and school breaks, she traveled to Louisiana to spend time with her father and extended family, which allowed her to experience different cultures, values, and ways of life that helped shape who she is today.
Before working at the District Attorney’s Office, she served with several law enforcement agencies. Ameilia began her career in law enforcement in September 2001, working for the San Diego State University Police Department, where she served for several years. She then joined the San Diego Police Department and was assigned primarily to the Southeastern Division, working in patrol, Community Relations, the Juvenile Service Team, and Investigations as a Detective. She also spent time working investigations in the Vice Unit and later transferred to Southern Division, where she continued to work investigations for several years before leaving the department in 2015.
After relocating to the Bay Area, she joined the Walnut Creek Police Department, where she worked in patrol and was promoted to Detective, handling sex crimes and child abuse investigations. Although she valued that experience, she missed San Diego and ultimately decided to return and joined the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office as an Investigator in 2018. She worked in the Economic Crimes Division for several years before transferring to the Child Abduction Unit until she was promoted to Supervising District Attorney Investigator in 2025. She is currently assigned to the Juvenile Branch as the Supervising District Attorney Investigator, where she is responsible for leading a team of Investigators who each manage caseloads involving juvenile-related crimes. She oversees the day-to-day operations of the unit, including assigning cases, reviewing reports, evaluating performance, and providing guidance and support to both the investigators and Deputy District Attorneys. In addition, she serves as a liaison and resource for outside agencies, ensuring collaboration and effective communication as it relates to our cases.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Since I was a young child, I have been intrigued by the work of law enforcement and the responsibility that comes with serving and protecting others. From an early age, I developed a strong passion for helping people and a desire to be a voice for those who cannot always stand up for themselves. The idea of seeking justice for the vulnerable and ensuring that everyone is treated fairly has always resonated with me on a personal level. My father and several other family members were in law enforcement, and I always admired the courage and dedication they had. Their example left a lasting impression on me and inspired a deep sense of respect and admiration for the profession. I developed a strong desire to follow in their footsteps and pursue a career in law enforcement, not only as a profession, but as a calling to serve my community, protect those in need, and make a meaningful difference in the lives of others.
I chose to work at the District Attorney’s Office because I wanted to continue making a meaningful difference in the lives of victims and their families. Being involved in the investigative process once cases come to the DA’s office allows me to support the pursuit of justice with care, diligence, and integrity. Beyond the work itself, I believe it is essential to build and maintain strong, trusting relationships with the community we serve, creating bridges that provide support, understanding, and hope to those who need it most.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“The most rewarding part of my job is seeing those who have harmed others held accountable, knowing our work can bring justice and a sense of peace to victims. I especially value being part of a team of dedicated individuals who support one another and share a commitment to ensuring that justice is not only pursued but truly achieved.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“
Black History Month
is important to me because it provides dedicated time to honor the achievements, resilience, and sacrifices of those who came before me. I believe that without understanding the past, it is impossible to fully appreciate the progress and opportunities we have today. This time serves not only as a moment of reflection, but also as an opportunity to educate, inspire, and encourage meaningful conversations. It fosters an environment of understanding—one that acknowledges current systemic issues and promotes open dialogue on how we can work together to overcome them and create lasting change.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Ameilia-Mitcalf.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-26 09:00:10
2026-02-24 17:53:52
Supervising District Attorney Investigator Ameilia Mitcalf
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother
Link to: Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother
Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew,...
Link to: DA Stephan Receives Scripps President’s Award for Efforts to Help Reduce Hospital Violence
Link to: DA Stephan Receives Scripps President’s Award for Efforts to Help Reduce Hospital Violence
DA Stephan Receives Scripps President’s Award for Efforts to Help Reduce...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
