Governor Signs DA-Sponsored Bills - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Governor Signs DA-Sponsored Bills
Two bills sponsored by the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office that strengthen state laws in support of sexual assault victims and senior citizens have been signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom.
[TWEET THIS]
Each sponsored bill was drafted with input from experts in the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office and each piece of legislation closes loopholes for vulnerable victims.
“These bills ensure crime victims and consumers are protected and are not inadvertently re-victimized when they report crime,” District Attorney Summer Stephan said. “I’m proud that our office is leading innovations in balanced criminal justice reform that ensures dignity and fairness for victims of sexual assault and the elderly. Thank you to Governor Newsom for signing these important bills into law. I was proud to fight alongside Assemblywoman Tasha Boerner Horvath for this landmark legislation that empowers victims of sexual assault to report and safeguards their dignity in the process, so they don’t have to suffer in silence. This law increases the ability to hold sexual predators accountable by removing another barrier to victims reporting.”
The bills sponsored by the District Attorney’s Office include:
Assembly Bill 1927 (Tasha Boerner Horvath, D-Encinitas) provides sexual assault victims and witnesses with amnesty to encourage participation in a sexual assault prosecution. Current law makes it a crime to possess or use a controlled substance and for a minor to purchase and consume alcohol, which can create situations where sexual assault victims and witnesses choose not to come forward out of fear of prosecution in a separate trial.
Assembly Bill 2471 (Brian Maienschein, D-San Diego) extends the time for a senior citizens 65 or older, to cancel certain contracts from three business days to five. A longer timeframe allows elderly people more time to carefully review the contract and consult with others before moving forward with the financial commitment.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/California-Capitol_0.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-09-29 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:02
Governor Signs DA-Sponsored Bills
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Hate Crime Defendant Sentenced
Link to: Hate Crime Defendant Sentenced
Hate Crime Defendant Sentenced
Link to: New Program can Locate Safe Shelter Space for Abuse Victims within Minutes
Link to: New Program can Locate Safe Shelter Space for Abuse Victims within Minutes
New Program can Locate Safe Shelter Space for Abuse Victims within Minutes
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
