Meet DA Investigator Yvette Gaines - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Yvette Gaines
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
District Attorney Investigator
Yvette Gaines.
Yvette has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since January 2023. Prior to the DA’s Office, she was with the San Diego Policed Department for 18 years. She is currently assigned as the sole investigator for the Workplace Justice Division, where she investigates criminal wage theft and labor trafficking cases.
When she is not busy working, she spends her free time with her husband and daughter, traveling, going to concerts and baseball games.
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“I am born and raised in San Diego. I come from a family of police officers. My father and two uncles were San Diego Police Officers. I was inspired by their dedication to public service, which strongly influenced my decision to pursue a career in law enforcement. My younger sister has since followed in our footsteps and is Deputy Sheriff with the San Diego Sheriff’s department.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Hispanic Heritage means being proud of where I come from and honoring the traditions and values passed down through my family. It recognizes the pride in my culture that emphasizes hard work, family, and tradition. For me, it is something that goes beyond the month it is celebrated. It is important to me because it connects me to my roots and inspires me to carry forward my traditions.”
What is a fun fact about you?
“Something unique about me is three of my grandparents are alive (my grandmother and grandfather on my father’s side and my grandmother on my mother’s side). They all grew up in Logan Heights and went to San Diego High School. They were very active in the community during that time and have amazing photos. There is a mural of my grandmother on my father’s side in Chicano Park. It reminds me of how deep my roots are here in San Diego and makes me proud.”
Read more Hispanic Heritage Month stories from the DA’s Office, here.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/DA-news-Photo-Yvette-Gaines.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-09-15 13:58:03
2025-10-15 11:13:01
Meet DA Investigator Yvette Gaines
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-25
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-25
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 09-12-25
Link to: Man who Ambushed and Killed His Sister’s Former Boyfriend Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Man who Ambushed and Killed His Sister’s Former Boyfriend Sentenced to Prison
Man who Ambushed and Killed His Sister’s Former Boyfriend Sentenced to Pr...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
