Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
IT Professionals Day, which is recognized on the third Tuesday of September, was established in 2015 to honor the IT pros who do the critical but often unseen work to keep our networks and applications running. So, today we want to highlight one of our amazing Information Technology Engineers here at the DA’s Office!
Meet
Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
, who was born and raised in San Diego County. He studied Architectural Engineering and Graphic Design at California State University Long Beach before finding his way into IT.
Dustin has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office for one year and is currently a Senior IT Engineer. When he is not busy working, he enjoys playing guitar, piano, golf and baseball. In his free time, he also likes reading, designing, and tinkering with computers, as he is a part of various IT trade organizations. Read more below about what inspired him to pursue a career in the
Information Technology Division
of the DA’s Office.
What is your position/describe your role at the DA’s Office?
“I am an IT Engineer – much of our day consists of finding effective solutions for complex issues and staying on the forefront of new technology to help everyone work safely and efficiently. Also reviewing A LOT of data.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Working with a great team at SDCDA and finding new, interesting problems to solve every day.”
What inspired you to pursue a career in IT for criminal justice system/law enforcement/DA’s Office?
“I really enjoy helping people, that’s the heart of any service/support role – I grew up working on electronics and building computers, so the IT part was a natural fit. Working for the San Diego DA’s office is an honor – what better way to help your community than to help support its justice system?”
Anything else you would like people to know about IT professionals?
“It is impossible to know everything in IT. We rely on each other as a team to share our expertise to resolve issues together. Just like in life – remember to reach out when you need help!”
The Information Technology Division strategically uses technology to support the operation of the District Attorney’s Office. The 28 employees who make up this unit, design, develop, implement, and support all information technology hardware, software, business applications, and websites. They also provide support for prosecution in the courtroom and community outreach efforts. In addition, ITD provides direct support to the City Attorney’s Office in their use of the District Attorney’s case management system for criminal prosecution.
Join us in recognizing all our IT Pros today and don’t forget to say “Happy IT Professionals Day” to your IT division!
#ITProDay #ITProfessionalsDay #InformationTechnology
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/IT-Professionals-Day-YouTube-Dustin-H.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-17 13:59:18
2024-09-17 14:00:03
Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Link to: Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Meet One Safe Place Executive Director Claudia Grasso
Link to: Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Link to: Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
