Preventing Human Trafficking on 'World Day Against Trafficking in Persons' - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Preventing Human Trafficking on ‘World Day Against Trafficking in...
Every year there is an estimated 8,000 new victims of sex trafficking in San Diego County, making human trafficking the second-largest underground economy after drugs, generating over $810 million in revenue per year. To bring awareness to this worldwide issue, the United Nations’ designated July 30 “World Day Against Trafficking in Persons.” To commemorate this day, the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office joined the Bilateral Safety Corridor Coalition and the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego during a “Human Trafficking Awareness and Prevention” conference, where District Attorney Summer Stephan explained the impact of this crime in our region.
[TWEET THIS]
“Human trafficking lies in the vulnerability of people” said District Attorney Stephan. “What is really important is for government to continue to enact laws that protect the vulnerable from this terrible form of exploitation and slavery. What is even more compelling than enacting laws is acting upon them in order to free those that have been subjugated to this terrible form of human rights violations. This day against trafficking of persons is not just a hopeful day, but it is a day of action.”
The “Human Trafficking Awareness and Prevention” conference hopes to bring attention to the growing problem of trafficking occurring in San Diego County and across the country. San Diego was identified by the FBI as one of the top 13 high intensity child prostitution areas. Although San Diego does share a border with Mexico, human trafficking does not require that a victim be moved over state or international borders. Human trafficking is also a domestic issue inside the state of California and San Diego County.
This event hopes to highlight the importance of government action in fighting the trafficking of people and encourages everyone to become more involved in helping stop this crime. Other keynote speakers included Consul General of Mexico in San Diego Carlos Gonzalez-Gutierrez, Bettina Hausman from the United Nations Association-San Diego Chapter, and Marisa Ugarte from the Bilateral Safety Corridor Coalition.
District Attorney Summer Stephan is a national leader in combating sexual exploitation and human trafficking, having served as a Deputy District Attorney for 28 years and as the Chief of the Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Division, a Special Victims Unit she pioneered. The San Diego County District Attorney’s Office has taken the lead in fighting human trafficking around San Diego County and hopes to continue the fight through events like these.
For tips on how to watch out for warning signs of human trafficking and to learn more about what the DA’s Office is doing to prevent it,
click here
.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/World-Day-Against-Trafficking-in-Persons-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-07-30 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:29
Preventing Human Trafficking on ‘World Day Against Trafficking in Persons’
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prosecutor Recognized for Prevention of Cyber Bullying, School Threats
Link to: Prosecutor Recognized for Prevention of Cyber Bullying, School Threats
Prosecutor Recognized for Prevention of Cyber Bullying, School Threats
Link to: Making Changes in Schools
Link to: Making Changes in Schools
Making Changes in Schools
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
