DA Charges Larry Millete with Murder - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Charges Larry Millete with Murder
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that her office has filed a murder charge against Larry Millete, 40, the husband of May “Maya” Millete, 40, a Chula Vista, California mother of three who has been missing since January. In addition to the murder charge, Millete is also charged with illegal possession of an assault weapon. If convicted, he faces life in state prison.
[WATCH NEWS CONFERENCE HERE]
Millete was arrested today by the Chula Vista Police Department. Following Millete’s arrest, he was booked into a San Diego County Jail and is being held without bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on Thursday at 1:30 in the South Bay Courthouse located in Chula Vista.
“Whenever one of our community goes missing, we hope for their safe return,” DA Stephan said. “Sometimes missing persons cases remain unsolved, but as the evidence unfolded in this case, it pointed in one direction— that May was murdered. As we make this announcement, I know the hearts of the community are with May’s family, her three young children, and everyone who knew and loved her.”
California law allows prosecutors to file murder charges even though May’s body has not been found. Specifically, case law holds that successfully disposing of a victim’s body does not entitle a murderer to avoid prosecution.
The District Attorney’s Office filed this case based on evidence that was developed during a nine-month investigation based on the collaboration of the Chula Vista Police Department, which led the investigation and a dedicated team from the DA’s Office along with support from the FBI and NCIS.
“Today is a step toward justice, but it does not mark the end of our investigation,” said Chula Vista Police Chief Roxana Kennedy. “The Chula Vista Police Department will continue to seek answers for May’s family.”
In San Diego County, there is an average of 13 domestic violence-related homicides each year. These types of murders make up 14 % of all homicides in the county.
If you or someone you know is being abused by a current or former partner, call the National
Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-7233) for confidential support and assistance.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/10-19-21-Maya-Millete-Case-News-Conference.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2021-10-19 18:05:41
2021-10-19 18:31:43
DA Charges Larry Millete with Murder
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
Link to: DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
DA Announces Standards for Healthcare Response to Domestic Violence
Link to: Las Colinas Nurse Charged with Manslaughter in Inmate Death
Link to: Las Colinas Nurse Charged with Manslaughter in Inmate Death
Las Colinas Nurse Charged with Manslaughter in Inmate Death
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
