Meet DA Investigator Donte Kendricks - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Donte Kendricks
In honor of Black History Month, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and their contributions to our community. Meet District Attorney Investigator Donte Kendricks, who has been with the District Attorney’s Office since August of 2021. He is currently a DA Investigator assigned to Superior Court, a division that handles felony cases and homicide trials. As a DA Investigator, Donte supports the Deputy DA’s by assisting with complex cases which require additional follow-up. His duties include serving subpoenas and locating difficult witnesses, writing search warrants for social media, phone records, and DNA, and interviewing witnesses who were either newly identified or unavailable to detectives prior to submitting the case. Prior to coming to the DA’s Office, he retired from the Chula Vista Police Department as a Detective Sergeant. Read more about what inspired Donte to continue his career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career at the DA’s Office?
“I chose the DA’s Office because I believe in the criminal justice system and want to be an asset in bringing justice to the victims of San Diego County. I also believe the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office has excellent leaders who have made a positive influence on San Diego County law enforcement by leading the way in things like de-escalation, while combatting human trafficking, and domestic family violence. We are also a diverse agency with leaders who believe in a diverse workplace, which reflects the community we serve. As a law enforcement professional and former detective, I felt the DA’s Office would be a perfect final chapter in my law enforcement career.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“As a child growing up in the 70s, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, I had the opportunity to learn in school about positive black figures like Harriett Tubman, Frederick Douglas, and Martin Luther King, Jr. I was also educated by my grandmother, who was born in 1918, about things she saw in her lifetime growing up in the deep South. Black History has always been important in shaping how I see the world and the positive growth that has occurred in my community. As a husband and father of three, I think it’s important to pass along Black History and the history of my family so we never forget the struggles of those who paved the way for today.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Donte-DAnews-Photo.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-06 16:01:25
2023-02-06 16:39:13
Meet DA Investigator Donte Kendricks
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Paralegal Chanté Prettyman
Link to: Meet Paralegal Chanté Prettyman
Meet Paralegal Chanté Prettyman
Link to: Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Link to: Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
