Founder of pH Miracle Diet and Co-Defendant Sentenced to Prison for Fraudulently Treating Patient - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Founder of pH Miracle Diet and Co-Defendant Sentenced to Prison for Fraudulently...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that Robert O. Young and Galina Migalko have been sentenced to prison for their fraudulent medical treatment of a 79-year-old woman with a life-threatening liver illness.
Young, 73, and co-defendant Migalko, 61, were found guilty by a North County jury in February of several felony counts, including two counts of practicing without a medical license, and one count of theft from an elder. Young was also found guilty of willful abuse of an elder and was sentenced to five years and eight months in prison on May 28. Migalko received a four years and four months sentence today.
“It is unconscionable that this defendant continued to treat patients for serious illnesses when he had twice been convicted of practicing medicine without a license and has nothing more than a high school education and purchased ‘degrees’ from unaccredited correspondence schools,” DA Stephan said. “His fraudulent treatments did not address the serious illnesses of his patients, putting them at serious risk.”
Young developed the pH Miracle diet, a controversial health regimen centered around the belief that cancer and other life-threatening illnesses can be treated with an all-vegetable smoothie diet and other treatments, including intravenous infusions of sodium bicarbonate—commonly known as baking soda, to “alkalinize” the body. Young’s “theory” has been soundly debunked by the medical community but continues to circulate in the conspiracy theory community. In this criminal case, he and Migalko convinced a 79-year-old woman with a life-threatening liver illness to walk away from her medical doctors, seriously jeopardizing her life. They treated the victim for liver disease from September 2020 to January 2021.
Despite being convicted previously of practicing medicine without a license, Young continued to ignore state laws and illegally treat patients.
To check if a physician is properly licensed and accredited, patients can visit
California’s Medical Board website,
which offers a searchable database of licensed practitioners. There, individuals can verify that the physician holds an active license and review any disciplinary actions or malpractice history. Additionally, patients can confirm board certification through the
American Board of Medical Specialties website
which ensures the doctor has met rigorous standards in a medical specialty.
Deputy DA Gina Darvas and Stephen Spinella prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/gavel-and-scales.jpg
900
1600
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-06-06 15:16:35
2025-06-09 15:17:04
Founder of pH Miracle Diet and Co-Defendant Sentenced to Prison for Fraudulently Treating Patient
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Restitution Fund for Hate Crime Vandalism in Hillcrest
Link to: Restitution Fund for Hate Crime Vandalism in Hillcrest
Restitution Fund for Hate Crime Vandalism in Hillcrest
Link to: Innovative Shelter Ready App Expanding Countywide
Link to: Innovative Shelter Ready App Expanding Countywide
Innovative Shelter Ready App Expanding Countywide
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
