Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
, who began working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2016 as a Student Worker. She eventually came onboard full time in 2018 when she started working with the DA’s Victim Services, where she discovered her passion for helping victims. Five years later, she is now a Criminal Legal Secretary at
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
working alongside others that have the same passion for helping victims and seeing them get back on their feet. Her current role at
One Safe Place
includes working closely with partnering agencies like Palomar Health, the FBI, HHSA and many more with any trainings, interviews, conferences, and events they want to host at the center. She assists others on her team with an extra hand whether it’s in reception, the child waiting room or any of the conference rooms. Read more about what inspired Kaitlyn to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Growing up, my parents taught me how to become a big advocate for helping others, so I learned pretty early on that I wanted to play a part in making a difference in a someone’s life, even if that meant working behind the scenes. In my current position at the DA’s office, I am glad that I can help others on our team succeed in changing someone’s life.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of this job is walking around
One Safe Place
and seeing a victim’s demeanor go from being helpless to becoming hopeful and happy. Knowing that I work with such an amazing team to get them to that point is extremely fulfilling!”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“To me,
AAPI month
is a chance to reflect on the sacrifices my grandparents made coming to America. If it wasn’t for their sacrifice, I would not be where I’m at today.
AAPI month
is important to me because it gives me the opportunity to show people what’s special with my culture, the contributions and the influences made through our traditions. It’s also a reminder to myself that I am just as much Chinese as I am Caucasian.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Kailtyn-Kueter-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-11 10:07:25
2023-05-11 10:15:17
Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran
Meet Deputy DA Eric Tran
Link to: Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Link to: Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
