Meet Deputy DA Jayda Davis - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Jayda Davis
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Jayda Davis
, who has been working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since 2023. She was born and raised in San Diego. Before joining the DA’s Office and before law school, she worked at Starbucks all throughout college at SDSU. After graduating from California Western School of Law, she worked at an estate planning law firm before law school. She is currently assigned to the
Felony Trial Team in the Superior Court Division
of the DA’s Office.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Ever since I was a little girl, I wanted to be a lawyer. It was the first and only thing I wanted to be when I grew up! I had no idea why or what a lawyer did, but my grandma planted the idea in my head, and I truly ran with it. Once I got to college I knew I wanted to do criminal law, I just wasn’t sure what that looked like. I then did an internship with the DA’s office and a judge in South Bay granted the expungement of a rape conviction over our objection. It was my last day at my internship, and although I was outraged at the court’s ruling and had just ‘lost’ that motion, I knew I needed to come back to continue to work on cases and make sure victims voices were being heard.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“It is so hard to pick one thing, but I would have to say my favorite part of the job is working with victims. A lot of the time, we are the first person a victim hears from after reporting the crime to the police. Being able to introduce myself and provide them with information or connections with our victim advocate services is one of the most rewarding parts of this job.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“Black History Month is a time of honor, reflection, and growth. About 3.5% of lawyers in California are Black and about 2% of those lawyers are Black women. I was the first person in my family to go to college and law school. Growing up I didn’t know any lawyers, let alone any Black lawyers, and that is why representation is SO important. I look internally at our office and see so many excellent Black DDA’s that I aspire to be like. I just hope to follow in their footsteps and help continue to pave the way for other kids who like me at such a young age just had a dream of being here. Just a special thank you to one of my mentors in the office, Chief Samira Seidu. Thank you for always believing in me!”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Jayda-Davis-1.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-10 14:14:50
2026-02-10 15:39:31
Meet Deputy DA Jayda Davis
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Undercover Operation Results in Arrests of Dozens of Drug Dealers in East Village
Link to: Undercover Operation Results in Arrests of Dozens of Drug Dealers in East Village
Undercover Operation Results in Arrests of Dozens of Drug Dealers in East V...
Link to: Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century Ago
Link to: Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century Ago
Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
