DA honors 6 at annual Citizens of Courage Awards - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA honors 6 at annual Citizens of Courage Awards
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan today honored six brave individuals with a Citizens of Courage Award during the 29th annual event, which is held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week.
[TWEET THIS]
“These individuals all displayed extraordinary bravery in the face of serious crime,” DA Stephan said. “By honoring them, we’re also shining a light on the thousands of crime victims our office reaches out to every year in San Diego County and the importance of supporting victims’ rights.”
The Citizens of Courage were honored at a luncheon in front of more than 450 invited dignitaries, elected officials, community leaders and guests.
The DA’s Victim Services Division and Victim Advocates were also recognized for the outstanding work they do year round.
This year’s Citizens of Courage recipients are:
DONNA COOPER
Victimized by an unlicensed dentist, Donna suffered significant injuries that required repeated corrective surgeries.  She cooperated with investigators and provided key testimony during a jury trial that helped convict this con artist.
Watch Donna’s story here.
DYLAN GRAHAM
After he and his student were kidnapped at gunpoint and forced into a car, this high school coach acted with extraordinary bravery and quick thinking to disarm the kidnapper and allow both to escape safely.
Watch Dylan’s story here
.
DYLAN AND MARISA MABRITO
In spite of the likelihood of substantial negative consequences, this mother and son demonstrated extraordinary moral courage by providing DNA to investigators working to solve a cold case homicide.
Watch Dylan and Marisa’s story here.
MARK LOPEZ AND FERNANDO MELENDEZ
Two men who came to the aid of a stabbing victim and were suddenly targeted by the attacker who fired a crossbow at them, leading to a struggle that ended with
the suspect’s arrest.
Watch Mark and Fernando’s story here
.
The DA’s Victim Services Division strives to reduce the trauma, frustration, and inconvenience experienced by victims, witnesses, and family members affected by crime. The Victim Assistance Program provides comprehensive services to all crime victims. Victim Advocates are focused on providing assistance to victims of violent crimes. In 2018, they assisted 13,315 new crime victims. This assistance included 1,567 crisis interventions and 13,718 resources and referrals.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Citizens-Of-Courage-2019-DAnews-story.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-04-09 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:20
DA honors 6 at annual Citizens of Courage Awards
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: 2019 Citizens of Courage: Mark Lopez and Fernando Melendez
Link to: 2019 Citizens of Courage: Mark Lopez and Fernando Melendez
2019 Citizens of Courage: Mark Lopez and Fernando Melendez
Link to: Going to Bat for Victims
Link to: Going to Bat for Victims
Going to Bat for Victims
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
