Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in...
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan, who grew from a young prosecutor’s attorney to the top law enforcement authority in San Diego County during her 29-year career with the Attorney General’s Office, vowed to protect children and their families and bring justice to the voiceless and most vulnerable during his swearing-in ceremony today at the San Diego County Board of Supervisors. In front of an audience including County officials, dignitaries and family members, Prosecutor Stephan was sworn in, administered by Chief Justice of the Superior Court, Peter Deddeh.
[COMPARTE EN TWITTER]
“I am very honored to be the District Attorney for this county,” said Attorney Stephan. “We are going to seek fair and just justice. We are going to push back bullies and we are going to defend vulnerable people. If they touch our children, we will go after them, if they threaten our schools, they will be held accountable, and if they hurt our seniors, they will face justice. “
Prosecutor Stephan said her office’s approach will be balanced with programs that recognize and address the root causes of crime.
“If you are a young person who has committed non-violent crimes, if you are a human being who has weaknesses, vulnerabilities, mental health problems, addictions, we are going to use a fair justice system but also one that is not one size fits all”, He said, “One that looks at underlying issues and offers second chances.”
Stephan identified several areas he plans to focus on during his tenure, including mental health, human trafficking, elder abuse, and juvenile justice. Noting the nexus between criminal justice and homelessness, mental health and substance abuse, Stephan said he is creating a new position in his office to work with community stakeholders to address the problem.
“We have to be able to balance compassionate treatment of people with mental health problems while protecting the rights of crime victims,” Stephan said.
Recognized as a national leader in the fight against human trafficking, Stephan vowed to continue working to prevent and prosecute the sexual exploitation of youth in the county.
In an effort for transparency, Stephan said it would shed a light on the rare cases where the police cannot stand up to the level of trust the public deserves.
“Without the truth, you cannot build trust with the community,” he said.
Attorney Stephan runs an office of more than 1,000 employees who protect public safety, seek justice, and support victims throughout San Diego County. The term of office of the District Attorney is four years.
[COMPARTE EN TWITTER]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
0
0
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-01-10 00:00:00
2019-01-10 00:00:00
Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in...
Link to: Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator
Link to: Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator
Jorge Duran Appointed New Chief Investigator
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
