Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu
In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we are highlighting compelling stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu, who has been part of the District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation (BOI) since 1993. He is a Commander who currently oversees BOI personnel assigned to the Family Protection Division and the Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Division. Before joining the DA’s Office, he worked as a Deputy Sheriff and Police Detective with the goal of one day being a DA Investigator.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“When I was in the police academy in 1984, I had an instructor who was a DA Investigator taught a class.  During breaks, I spoke to him about his position and what DA Investigators do.  I was fascinated that there are law enforcement officers who work directly with prosecutors and, as a team, bring justice to those who are victimized.
I was a Theater major at UCSD, so I have always enjoyed interacting with people; law enforcement allowed me to interact with people in a way that could have a profound impact on their lives.  My favorite part of the job is that it allows me to use my creativity to solve a crime or prove a case.  Investigation and prosecution of a case take a collaboration of creativity to identify the suspect, gather evidence, identify victims and witnesses, and gain their cooperation.  I find the process exciting and challenging.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“The AAPI community contributes to our society in so many different fields. I also want to celebrate and honor the struggle and sacrifices that families have made to leave their homeland due to wars or repressive governments to bring us here for a brighter future.”
Read more stories for AAPI Heritage Month:
Deputy DA Leonard Trinh
Deputy DA Fanny Yu
Chief Deputy DA Jerrilyn Malana
Deputy DA Hung Bach
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/AAPI-Heritage-Month-DA-Employees-1.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-05-14 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:23
Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Chief Deputy DA Jerrilyn Malana
Link to: Meet Chief Deputy DA Jerrilyn Malana
Meet Chief Deputy DA Jerrilyn Malana
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach
Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
