Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
District Attorney Investigator Xanthe Rosario.
Xanthe was born in San Diego, California, but spent the first years of her life in Mexico. Her mother brought her back to the US when she was six years old.
She is currently a
DA Investigator
assigned to the
Child Abduction Unit
in the
Family Protection Division
, where her role is to investigate parental child abduction. She investigates cases where a child is unlawfully taken or kept by a parent or guardian in violation of custody agreements or court orders. These cases often involve situations where one parent takes the child across state lines, conceals their location, or refuses to return the child after a visitation period. The Child Abduction Unit works to locate missing children and the parent who abducted them; ensure the enforcement of custody orders issued by family courts, coordinate with law enforcement agencies, child protective services, and sometimes federal authorities (like the FBI) when abductions involve crossing state or international borders; recover the child safely and return them to the legal guardian or custodial parent;  and prevent future abductions by prosecuting violations of custody agreements or court orders. The unit also investigates “Hagues” cases. In the context of parental child abduction, The Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction is a multilateral treaty designed to address international child abduction cases. The Hague Convention on Child Abduction aims to promptly return children who have been abducted by a parent or guardian across international borders, ensuring custody disputes are settled in the child’s country of habitual residence.
During her spare time, Xanthe enjoys spending time with her teens, guiding them through life, hiking, and cooking for family and friends while having gatherings at her house because “food always brings people together.” She also belongs to a volunteer group that allows her to travel to other countries and volunteer by working with kids in unfortunate neighborhoods, like the child she is pictured with while volunteering in Costa Rica.
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“I was inspired by the honor and respect I have for law enforcement. At a young age, I pursued a law enforcement career because I felt compassion and wanted to protect vulnerable and innocent people. I’ve admired the dedication and commitment of officers who put their lives on the line specifically for that purpose. The career inspired me to be a better human, a better mother, and a better servant. I began my career in law enforcement as a correctional officer at the San Diego County Probation Department. Then, I was hired by the Los Angeles Police Department, where I worked as an undercover in high schools, internal affairs, and a narcotics unit. In 2004, I was hired by the Chula Vista Police Department. At CVPD, I was a School Resource Officer and a detective in the Family Protection Unit and Crimes of Violence Unit. After 19 years at CVPD, I was hired by the DA’s Office. A strong sense of justice drove me to pursue a career at the DA’s Office. I knew my passion and my ability to connect with people would pay off. Working in the DA’s Office allows me to hold offenders accountable while seeking fair and balanced outcomes. The ability to advocate for kids and innocent people truly motivates me daily.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of the job is being deeply motivated by the responsibility of ensuring fairness. I am fulfilled by coming to work and helping my partners and co-workers. Knowing that I enjoy what I do and being thankful for my everyday growth.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Being Hispanic, speaking Spanish fluently, and working for multiple agencies where a high percentage of the people we serve are Hispanic and vulnerable has been one of the most rewarding experiences in my life. Hispanic Heritage Month is the time to recognize and celebrate Hispanic and Latino Americans’ contributions, history, culture, and achievements. It highlights people’s diverse backgrounds, traditions, and rich cultural heritage. For this reason, I will continue to use my language and my Hispanic background as a strength.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Xanthe-Rosario-DAnews-EN.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-24 16:08:03
2024-09-25 16:04:01
Meet DA Investigator Xanthe Rosario
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Link to: 5 THINGS to know about One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
Link to: 5 THINGS to know about One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
5 THINGS to know about One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Cent...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
