Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett
Meet District Attorney Investigator Christopher Everett, who has worked in law enforcement for 33 years. The first four years of his career began at the Los Angeles Police Department and then the San Diego Police Department, where he retired after 25 years. For the past five years, he has been working as an Investigator for the San Diego County District Attorney’s Child Abduction Unit, which is part of the Family Protection Division. To date, Christopher has helped recover 55 children.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“As I was approaching my retirement with the San Diego Police Department, I felt like I had more to offer the community and law enforcement,” he said. “It has truly been a blessing to work at the DA’s Office and have the opportunity to continue contributing to the San Diego County community.”
“Working in the Child Abduction Unit has been one of the most rewarding positions I’ve held in my 33-year law enforcement career.  In every child abduction case, the child experiences what I refer to as SEP (Sexual, Emotional and Physical Abuse).  In the worst-case scenarios, children become victims of human trafficking.  I know from experience that today’s victim becomes tomorrow’s suspect/defendant. The Child Abduction Unit has an opportunity stop the cycle of violence and change the entire trajectory of an abducted child’s life.  It’s why I remain committed to getting these children back to a safe environment.
While ALL of my cases have had an impact on me, the case which had the greatest impact was a case involving 14-year-old twin children (brother/sister). Their father used deception to get the children out of the US and take them to Iraq.  Once in Iraq, he refused to return the children. Because Iraq is a Non-Hague/Treaty country, the general consensus was there was nothing we could do to help the children. Knowing the children were suffering abuse at their father’s hand, I refused to give up.  Over 19 months, using creative investigative techniques, federal partnerships and help from the US and Iraq Military, I was able to get the kids back home. Although they are home safe, the road to emotional recovery for them both continues and won’t be easy.
This past Christmas, they sent me a family photo Christmas Card. Written on the card was ‘Our First Christmas! Thank You.’  Two weeks ago, I received an email from the family.  One of the twins applied to UC Santa Barbara and had been accepted. WOW, I thought. Just amazing!  Imagine if I hadn’t fought to bring them home? They would still be in that SEP environment.  I know that my work forever changed the trajectory of their lives for the better, and they have made an impression on me which I will never forget. Never Give Up!”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“Black History Month is a time for highlighting the many accomplishments and contributions that African Americans have made to the scientific, educational and social justice fabric of our country.
Black history matters to everyone, not just African Americans
.
Their accomplishments and challenges benefit all of humankind. I’m glad we celebrate and recognize Black History because to really truly understand our nation’s history, we all need to recognize and acknowledge the role of African Americans in that history.”
See their stories too:
Paralegal Nicole Runyon
Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Chief Deputy District Attorney Dwain Woodley
Crime Prevention Specialist Danielle Fair
District Attorney Investigator Christopher Everett
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Black-History-Month_-DA-Employees-1.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-02-25 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:18
Meet DA Investigator Christopher Everett
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Meet Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor
Link to: Veterans Treatment Court Celebrates 10 Year Anniversary
Link to: Veterans Treatment Court Celebrates 10 Year Anniversary
Veterans Treatment Court Celebrates 10 Year Anniversary
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
