Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
, who works in the Family Protection Division. He has been with the office for nine years. He started his career with the DA’s office in 2015 as a Departmental Clerk in the Superior Court Records division. He currently co-supervises a team of 10 support staff consisting of Legal Support Assistants, Criminal Legal Secretaries, and Student Workers. Some of his work duties include training and evaluating the work of support staff, creating, and implementing procedures, preparing reports, purchasing supplies, paying for miscellaneous expenses, creating service tickets and maintenance requests, and responding to CMS assistance inquiries. Read more about what inspired Solomon to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“I chose a career with the DA’s office because I felt a connection with our mission to serve the public and pursue a fair and equal justice for all. In addition, I really enjoy working with my co-workers and the work environment. I have had the chance to work with and meet a lot of amazing people. As a Legal Support Supervisor, I have the opportunity to work with and train a lot of new employees who are just getting started with their careers. I love this part of my job because I get the chance to see the members of our team grow. The work I perform is more behind the scenes but seeing our attorneys, investigators, paralegals, victim advocates and staff’s passion for their work and commitment to victims of crime, also inspires me to do my job to the best of my ability.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“As a Filipino American,
AAPI month
is important to me because it gives us an opportunity to celebrate and recognize the achievements of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and their cultures. Being born and raised in the United States, it was important to me to learn about Filipino culture and where my parents and grandparents were originally from. I also made an effort to learn the language since I have many relatives in the Philippines and wanted to be able to communicate with everyone when I visit them. For me, I find it interesting being multilingual or multicultural since I believe it changes the way you think and behave. The norms, values, beliefs, and expectations can differ from one culture to another but this is also why I think it is very important to know more about other cultures so we can learn, understand and be empathetic to one another and continue to grow.”
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AAPI-month-DAnews-Solomon-Bautista.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-16 08:00:46
2024-05-28 12:16:24
Meet Legal Support Supervisor Solomon Bautista
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Tiffany Murphy
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Tiffany Murphy
Citizen of Courage 2024: Tiffany Murphy
Link to: 30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
Link to: 30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
