26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
said today that Brandon Janik, 38, was sentenced on January 24 to 15 years-to-life in state prison for driving under the influence, running a red light and killing 47-year-old Joshua Gilliland who was walking to work. Superior Court Judge Laura Parsky sentenced Janik to an additional seven years in prison to be served consecutively for committing insurance fraud and hit and run with death. The DA also confirmed today that 26 people were killed in DUI-related crashes last year.
“This was a tragic crime that took the life of a beloved community member. If you drive drunk, hit someone, and flee the scene, you’re committing a serious felony that carries serious penalties, including life in prison,” said DA Stephan. “Trying to cover it up with insurance fraud only adds to your charges, increasing the likelihood of getting caught and facing even steeper consequences. Law enforcement, forensic experts, and insurance investigators are highly skilled at uncovering these crimes—so do the right thing before you ruin lives, including your own.”
On November 7, 2024, after a nine-day trial, a jury found Brandon Janik guilty of all seven counts, including second degree murder, gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, hit and run with death, and four insurance fraud charges.
On June 10, 2023, Janik, who had a prior DUI conviction in 2016, ran a red light and killed Gilliland, a well-liked bartender in University Heights. Surveillance footage showed Gilliland lawfully crossing the street at the intersection of Normal Street and El Cajon Boulevard when Janik sped through the intersection against the red light, struck Gilliland, and then fled the scene without calling 911.
The San Diego Police Traffic Division later connected the hit and run to an incident approximately 10 minutes earlier, when a passersby located Janik asleep in the driver’s seat of a car in the middle of the roadway. The person removed Janik, who was visibly intoxicated, from the driver’s seat and called 911. As they waited for paramedics to arrive, Janik thanked them and said, “I already have a DUI.” Once paramedics arrived on scene, Janik admitted he had been drinking, but claimed he would leave the vehicle parked and use a rideshare. Janik refused transportation to the hospital for medical treatment and paramedics cleared the scene.
Once the bystanders and paramedics left, Janik got back into his parked car and drove away, nearly striking another car as he sped off. The fatal collision took place only a minutes later and less than half a mile away.
The morning after the collision, the defendant read multiple news articles online about the crash. Janik proceeded to replace the vehicle’s smashed windshield using a mobile repair company. He later filed a false insurance claim with Esurance for additional damages to the passenger door and hood of the vehicle. Janik lied to support his false claim on three occasions and each time Janik denied anyone had been injured in the collision when directly asked. Janik’s primary concern was that his insurance premiums would go up.
At trial, Deputy District Attorneys Hailey Williams and Dana Dunlap presented evidence from 29 witnesses, including civilians, experts, police detectives, and Esurance employees. They introduced more than 100 exhibits, including surveillance video of the collision, Janik’s bar receipts prior to the collision, cell phone evidence, and recorded insurance phone calls. The jury deliberated for only a few hours before returning a guilty verdict on all counts.
Data shows that the number of young drivers involved in fatal DUI-related crashes has increased this past year. Prosecutors say that more than half of the individuals charged with DUI homicide offenses in 2024 were between the age of 18 and 26 at the time of the collision.
Insurance fraud, including auto insurance fraud, costs U.S. consumers an estimated$80 to $90 billion per year. In California, it’s a $15 billion-a-year problem. It’s the second-largest economic crime in America, exceeded only by tax evasion. The San Diego County District Attorney’s Office combats this problem by using experienced specialists to confront the insurance fraud epidemic.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/DUI.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-02-05 12:55:42
2025-02-05 12:55:42
26 People Killed in DUI-Related Crashes Last Year
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Link to: Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Ex-Convict Sentenced for Cold Case Sexual Assault in Pacific Beach Alley
Link to: Defendant Sentenced for First-Degree Murder of Ex-Girlfriend’s Fiancé
Link to: Defendant Sentenced for First-Degree Murder of Ex-Girlfriend’s Fiancé
Defendant Sentenced for First-Degree Murder of Ex-Girlfriend’s Fiancé
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
