Meet Information Technology Principal Yabin Su - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Information Technology Principal Yabin Su
In honor of A
sian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Information Technology Principal Yabin Su
, who has been with our office for 14 years, and as an I.T. professional, she has been responsible for designing, developing, implementing, and supporting the DA’s intranet and public-facing website. Read more about what inspired Yabin to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career in public service/what inspired you to pursue this career?
“I was driven to choose a career in public service by my belief in contributing to the public good and the sense of self-fulfillment I get in serving others. Being a part of the DA’s office, applying my skills to support the office, the victims, and bringing justice to the people have all made this a fulfilling job.”
What does AAPI Month mean to you/why is it important?
“AAPI month is a time to celebrate and honor the rich culture, history, contributions, and achievements of AAPI communities in our country. As a member of the AAPI community, I see this month as an opportunity to raise awareness for the challenges we face, build connections among our communities, reflect on our roots, and reconnect with our traditions.”
A fun fact about you or what do you enjoy doing in your free time?
“In my free time, I enjoy exploring the beautiful beaches and countless trails that San Diego has to offer. One of my favorite things to do is to cook fusion Chinese food.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Yabin-Su-AAPI-DAnews-PHOTO.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-05-29 16:39:43
2025-05-29 16:39:43
Meet Information Technology Principal Yabin Su
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attack
Link to: Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attack
Probationer who Stabbed Elderly Trolley Rider Sentenced to Prison for Attac...
Link to: Meet the Legislative Unit’s Administrative Analyst Elaine Bissett
Link to: Meet the Legislative Unit’s Administrative Analyst Elaine Bissett
Meet the Legislative Unit’s Administrative Analyst Elaine Bissett
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
