SB 1042 Elevates Sex and Labor Trafficking to More Serious Crimes - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
SB 1042 Elevates Sex and Labor Trafficking to More Serious Crimes
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
today said her office is supporting Senate Bill 1042 which would change California law to make human trafficking a “violent” felony crime. SB 1042 will also designate human trafficking as a “strike” offense. The bill is authored by State Senator Shannon Grove (R-Bakersfield) and was introduced into the California legislature last week.
“This legislation ensures traffickers are sentenced to prison, establishes increased penalties for repeat offenders, and prevents traffickers from receiving early parole,” said DA Stephan. “We continue to attack human trafficking, the sexual exploitation of young people, and labor trafficking on several fronts. This change to the law will give prosecutors across the state another tool that has more serious consequences for those who would prey on some of the most vulnerable in our communities.”
Under current California law, human trafficking is defined as a “non-serious” and “non-violent” crime, falling into the same category as other low-level felony crimes such as vandalism, theft and drug sales.
Southern California has the notorious distinction of being one of the nation’s top destinations for human trafficking. The state consistently ranks number one in the nation in the number of human trafficking cases reported to the national human trafficking hotline.
By definition, human trafficking charges apply to those who are sexually exploiting or attempting to sexually exploit children and those who use force, fear, fraud, deceit, coercion, violence, duress, menace or an unlawful threat of injury on an adult that results in the substantial and sustained deprivation of the adult victim’s liberty for the purposes of obtaining forced labor, services, or sexual exploitation.
Both state and federal law enforcement agencies, including the California Attorney General, define human trafficking as “modern-day slavery.”  This label is well-deserved as traffickers control every aspect of a victim’s life.  Traffickers are exploiters of the worst kind, frequently targeting the most vulnerable and abused of society for their own financial and sexual exploitation.  Women, children, and minorities are particularly vulnerable for exploitation, as are members of the LBTQ community.
Last week, the DA announced a
new outreach campaign
aimed at raising awareness that boys are often victims of human trafficking. The month-long campaign’s goal is to broaden the public perception of who is vulnerable to being sexually trafficked. Officials hope that bringing attention to this issue will improve screening, identification, and services for boys who are victims of sex trafficking. The campaign is appearing on billboards, bus transit posters, on social media and in public service announcements on radio.
A study by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice estimated that as many as
50%
of the commercially sexually exploited children in the United States are boys.
The bill will be heard next in the State Senate’s Public Safety Committee.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/California-Capitol_0.jpg
320
480
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2022-03-07 08:00:33
2022-03-14 18:25:06
SB 1042 Elevates Sex and Labor Trafficking to More Serious Crimes
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: New Outreach Campaign Raises Awareness About the Sex Trafficking of Boys
Link to: New Outreach Campaign Raises Awareness About the Sex Trafficking of Boys
New Outreach Campaign Raises Awareness About the Sex Trafficking of Boys
Link to: DA Announces $3.25 Million Settlement with Brookdale Senior Living
Link to: DA Announces $3.25 Million Settlement with Brookdale Senior Living
DA Announces $3.25 Million Settlement with Brookdale Senior Living
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
