Meet CPP Cheryl Sueing-Jones - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet CPP Cheryl Sueing-Jones
Meet
Community Partnership Prosecutor Cheryl Sueing-Jones
, who has worked for the DA’s Office for more than 20 years.
In that role
, Cheryl engages in long-term proactive partnerships with the community, with law enforcement and with public and private organizations to build reciprocal relationships of trust. She conducts trainings, community forums, town halls and public safety workshops intended to reduce crime and improve the quality of life for residents. “
My position
provides a platform to listen to the community, address concerns, correct misconceptions and educate the public about crime prevention initiatives,” she said. “It is my honor and privilege to collaborate with the community and our office to promote equity, diversity and inclusion.”
[TWEET THIS]
Why did you come to work at the District Attorney’s Office?
“I decided to work for the DA’s office because I wanted to be a trial lawyer, to bring justice to victims of crime and to be a voice to the most vulnerable. I have stayed here for nearly a quarter of a century because I have had many opportunities to fulfill those missions in an office that is on the frontline of positive change and is committed to improving criminal justice and race relations inside and outside of the office. I am always proud when I have the opportunity to stand and say ‘Cheryl Sueing-Jones for the people.’”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“Over the last several months our country has experienced a transformational moment in race relations and demands for racial justice have reached a fever pitch,” Sueing-Jones said. “Black Americans have been disproportionately affected by death and job losses from COVID-19. The killing of George Floyd and others ignited long-term historic trauma that is rooted in racism and exposed the systemic inequities that continue despite the many contributions African Americans have made to every aspect of American culture. While we were relieved to see 2020 in the rearview mirror, 2021 arrived with an attack on the US Capitol following the election of the first Black Vice President, Kamala Harris, a woman, my sorority sister, Hastings classmate and fellow graduate of a historically Black college. During this time of division, it is important to not only remember our history, but to also celebrate our new examples of black excellence. Black History Month is important to me because it represents an opportunity to shine a light upon the best in African American culture and to keep the spirit of Black Lives Matter alive.”
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Black-History-Month_-Cheryl-Suing-Jones.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-02-16 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:15
Meet CPP Cheryl Sueing-Jones
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Vaccine Scams
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Vaccine Scams
Beware of COVID-19 Vaccine Scams
Link to: Meet Crime Prevention Specialist Danielle Fair
Link to: Meet Crime Prevention Specialist Danielle Fair
Meet Crime Prevention Specialist Danielle Fair
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
