District Attorney and City Attorney Remind Voters of their Rights - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
District Attorney and City Attorney Remind Voters of their Rights
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan and San Diego City Attorney Mara W. Elliott today released a
“know your rights” fact sheet
outlining the laws that protect voters’ ability to safely and privately cast their ballots.
The prosecutors will share the fact sheet with the public digitally, in English and Spanish. It is designed to supplement and amplify the educational outreach already being done throughout San Diego County by the Registrar of Voters.
The City and the County are both part of the San Diego Law Enforcement Coordination Center, which is tasked with investigating any reports of improprieties or violations at the polls.
“As prosecutors, we’re constantly working to prevent crime and protect the public’s safety- including protecting the rights of every voter to safely vote in San Diego County,” said San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan. “We are working closely with law enforcement, the U.S. Attorney and the City Attorney to ensure a civil process during and after the election and we are calling on our community to report any suspicious or unlawful activity to law enforcement. Voters should be assured that we won’t tolerate violations of state law connected to voting or polling locations, including hate crimes.”
“Every voter should feel confident in the integrity of this election,” San Diego City Attorney Mara W. Elliott said. “District Attorney Stephan and I want to make sure that the public knows that laws and procedures to protect voting rights are in place. We want to ensure votes are cast safely and that all conduct at polling places is lawful. Those who violate the law will be held accountable.”
“The close coordination between the Registrar of Voters, the District Attorney, and the City Attorney’s Office is paramount to ensuring a safe voting environment for our San Diego County voters,” said County Registrar of Voters Michael Vu. “Our collective message to all eligible voters? Your right to vote freely in this, or any election, will be protected.”
District Attorney Stephan and City Attorney Elliott urge the public to:
Report unauthorized guns at or outside the polls by calling 9-1-1
Report any illegal or fraudulent election activity to an elections official or the Secretary of State’s Office, including vandalism at polling places and tampering with election equipment.
Important contacts:
Registrar of Voters: (858) 565-5800
San Diego Law Enforcement Coordination Center: 858-495-7200 or
www.SD-LECC.org
Secretary of State Voter Hotline: (800) 345-VOTE (8683)
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD AND PRINT THE KNOW YOUR RIGHTS FACT SHEET.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Voter-Rights-photo.jpg
856
1221
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-10-30 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:06
District Attorney and City Attorney Remind Voters of their Rights
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Joins Colleagues Across California to Support Victims of Domestic Violence
Link to: DA Joins Colleagues Across California to Support Victims of Domestic Violence
DA Joins Colleagues Across California to Support Victims of Domestic Violen...
Link to: DA Objects to Early Release of DUI Driver in Chicano Park Crash
Link to: DA Objects to Early Release of DUI Driver in Chicano Park Crash
DA Objects to Early Release of DUI Driver in Chicano Park Crash
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
