Meet Paralegal Andrea Rios - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Paralegal Andrea Rios
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Paralegal Andrea Rios
.
Andrea was born and raised in San Diego, where she grew up in Chula Vista. She graduated from San Diego State University and obtained her Paralegal Certification from the University of San Diego. Prior to working at the DA’s Office, she worked at a private law firm that specialized in Business Law, Civil Litigation, Construction, Real Estate, Product Defect, Transportation and Wrongful Death claims. In March 2022, she joined the DA’s Office and is currently a
Paralegal II in the Superior Court Division
. Her job includes assisting with Preliminary Hearings and Felony Jury Trials by obtaining all supporting documents and evidence, communicating with victims/witnesses, as well as all law enforcement. She also assists in arranging travel and transportation for out-of-town witnesses/victims. Lastly, she provides trial support for the Deputy District Attorneys both in and out of the courtroom. “During my time at the DA’s office, I’ve also been fortunate to work with some great people, who have helped to develop my career,” she said.
In her spare time, Andrea enjoys attending concerts, traveling, watching baseball games at Petco Park, trying new restaurants in San Diego, and spending time with her friends, family, and her new little fur baby, a puppy named Simba.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“I always knew I wanted to work in law enforcement in some capacity, my father retired from SDPD after 32 years of service and he’s been a big inspiration.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of the job is being able to help and find the missing puzzle piece to each case. Each case is unique with a different set of facts, and I am glad that I can help make a difference in serving justice, especially for our victims. It’s definitely very rewarding.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“
Hispanic Heritage Month
is important to me because it’s a celebration of who I am. As a first generation American, I’m appreciative of the sacrifices my parents made to give my siblings and I access to better opportunities. It’s a time to learn about our roots, values, and accomplishments so that I can pass them on to my children in the future. It’s also a time to celebrate our amazing culture through art, music, dancing, and great food!”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Andrea-Rios-DAnews-EN.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-10-10 13:21:19
2023-10-10 13:21:19
Meet Paralegal Andrea Rios
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: HR Chief Honored by Japanese American Citizens League
Link to: HR Chief Honored by Japanese American Citizens League
HR Chief Honored by Japanese American Citizens League
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Laura Palacios
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Laura Palacios
Meet Deputy DA Laura Palacios
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
