Meet Our Community Justice Champions - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Our Community Justice Champions
As we close out
Black History Month
, we want to take a moment and recognize the recipients of our
DA Community Justice Champion Awards
, for their extraordinary service and dedication to promoting just and safe communities:
Roosevelt Williams III, CEO of Young Black & In Business
, is a DA
Community Justice Champion
for making significant, innovative, and impactful change on his community and the lives of minority owned businesses and entrepreneurs. He has been a good public safety partner in building bridges of trust with the community and using economic development tools to uplift and empower his community to create an environment for safer communities and prosperous quality of life for all.
Carla Crudup, Treasurer and Program Lead of Broadway Heights Community Council
, is a DA
Community Justice Champion
for stepping up for her community and keeping the organization running in the wake of great loss, when the beloved founders of BHCC, Robbie and Barbara Robinson passed away. She has led the community in keeping the community events going, educating the youth on Black History, and recently unveiling the bust of Dr. Shirley Weber.
Precious Jackson Hubbard, Bell Middle School Principal,
is a DA
Community Justice Champion
because she is a passionate educator focused on uplifting vulnerable youth through her work at Bell Middle School and as a member of the Board of Directors for San Diego Youth Services.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Community-Champion-Award-1.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-28 16:43:06
2023-02-28 20:53:01
Meet Our Community Justice Champions
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson
Meet DA Investigator Steve Hutchinson
Link to: Solana Beach Woman Sentenced for Killing Stepfather
Link to: Solana Beach Woman Sentenced for Killing Stepfather
Solana Beach Woman Sentenced for Killing Stepfather
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
