Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
, who works in multiple divisions, including
Economic Crimes, Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice and Victim Services
. She provides support and assistance in the day-to-day operations to all Deputy DAs, DA Investigators, Paralegals and clerical staff. She provides guidance, training, and counseling (when needed) to all clerical staff and motivate them to do well in their various assignments. As an LSM, she takes care of various service and purchasing requests, processing, and submitting new hire LAN accounts, transfers of DA employees as well as outside agency to the IT Department, handling problem resolution and difficult personnel issues. Gina has been with the DA’s Office since 1999. Read more about what inspired Gina to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“I believe that our office plays an integral part in keeping the community safe. I’m honored to be part of an organization that protects the innocent and helps the victims gets justice. I’m proud of what our office does and will always support the values and service we give to the San Diego community.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“I’m thankful that our office celebrates AAPI month by recognizing the contribution of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to the society. I wish that more people will take the time to learn about our culture and heritage through our traditions, beliefs, music, food, and different languages. I hope that it will encourage everyone to embrace all our differences and promote understanding and respect. Everyone deserves to be valued as a person.”
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AAPI-month-DAnews-Gina-Peralta.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-20 09:00:28
2024-05-28 12:15:56
Meet Legal Support Manager Gina Peralta
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: 30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
Link to: 30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
30 Year Sentence for Armed Robber
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2024: Natalie, Rachel and Sophie
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2024: Natalie, Rachel and Sophie
Citizens of Courage 2024: Natalie, Rachel and Sophie
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
