Diverting Youth Arrested for Arson - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Diverting Youth Arrested for Arson
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that her office is providing a $25,000 grant to the San Diego Burn Institute in support of their
Youth Firesetter Intervention Program (YFS)
. The diversion program incorporates evidence-based risk assessment tools and education to intervene in dangerous fire setting behavior by youth and stop it at the source. The grant comes on the heels of the DA announcing its new
Juvenile Diversion Initiative
.
“Data shows that most youth come into contact with the criminal justice system only once, so initiatives like the Firesetter Intervention Program are critical in re-directing young people away from this specific behavior that got them into trouble,” said DA Summer Stephan. “The program also addresses the root cause of the juveniles’ arson behavior which can put themselves or others in danger.”
YFS responds to referrals from county fire departments, law enforcement, school officials, probation, juvenile justice systems, Metro Arson Strike Team, and others in San Diego and Imperial Counties. The Burn Institute provides risk assessments for future fire setting behaviors and education courses with the youth and family about legal ramifications, fiscal ramifications, and the dangers to self and others. The program also makes referrals to community agencies to address compounding clinical issues.
“Fire is everywhere in our society, from lighting a candle, to large explosions in movies,” said Susan Day, Executive Director of the Burn Institute. “Children see and mimic these behaviors when they don’t understand the risks or think through what could happen. Our YFS program uses prevention and intervention techniques to help change a child’s behavior before a curiosity or experimentation with fire becomes more destructive”
Juveniles under age 18 who are referred for fire setting behaviors are eligible for services available in English, Spanish and other languages. The District Attorney’s Juvenile Division reviews about 10 allegations of arson by youth each year. However, the YFS program assists many more youth than cases the DA receives. Firefighters or law enforcement might suspect a youth is involved in starting the fire but may not have the evidence to submit a case. In those cases, the youth will still be referred to Burn Institute for assessment and education on the dangers of fire.
Research shows that 55% of U.S. arson arrests are under the age of 18, and almost half of these arrests are age 15 and under. Arson is the second leading cause of all fatal home accidents, and fire setting is the largest cause of home deaths among children.
The YFS program is confidential and free of charge. Individuals don’t need a referral and can self-enroll in the program by contacting the Youth Firesetter Program Coordinator at 858-541-2277 x 111 or
YFS@burninstitute.org
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Match-on-Fire-DAnewscenter-Slider.jpg
430
1500
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2021-09-08 12:45:06
2021-09-08 12:45:06
Diverting Youth Arrested for Arson
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: ‘Day of Action’ Calls Attention to Alarming Spike in Fentanyl Overdose Deaths
Link to: ‘Day of Action’ Calls Attention to Alarming Spike in Fentanyl Overdose Deaths
‘Day of Action’ Calls Attention to Alarming Spike in Fentanyl Overdose ...
Link to: Former CEO Fined $37 Million in Massive Charter School Fraud Case
Link to: Former CEO Fined $37 Million in Massive Charter School Fraud Case
Former CEO Fined $37 Million in Massive Charter School Fraud Case
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
