DA Honors Seven Local Heroes at ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Honors Seven Local Heroes at ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
honored seven brave individuals today during the DA’s 35th annual Citizens of Courage Awards, held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week. This year, National Crime Victim’s Rights Week was observed April 6-12. As part of this annual event, the DA not only highlights the courageous individuals who survived or witnessed a crime, but also the important services that are offered through the DA’s Victim Assistance program. The DA’s Office is the largest provider of victim services in the county.
“I hope this event inspires everyone to make us better as a community because we all have the potential of being Citizens of Courage,” DA Stephan said. “The seven individuals we are honoring today are an example of the courage that exists within us when placed in dangerous or trying circumstances. This special event helps us shine a light on the many courageous crime victims our office serves in the pursuit of justice every day, and the importance of supporting victims’ rights, which is at the heart of our mission at the District Attorney’s Office. I am very proud and grateful for the tireless service performed by our Victim Advocates on behalf of crime victims.”
The DA’s
Victim Services Division
strives to reduce the trauma, fear and pain experienced by victims, witnesses, and family members affected by crime. The Victim Assistance Program provides comprehensive services to all crime victims, while Victim Advocates are focused on providing assistance to victims of violent crimes. In 2024, they assisted
10,667
new crime victims. This assistance included
556
crisis interventions and
10,152
referrals to community resources. Additionally,
3,758
victims have completed
11,904
total visits to
One Safe Place:
The North County Family Justice Center
since opening in 2022. These visits include comprehensive services such as case management, restraining orders, trauma therapy, forensic exams, connections to shelter and more.
This year, the Citizens of Courage Awards ceremony was held at the Liberty Station Conference Center in front of more than 350 invited dignitaries, elected officials, community leaders and guests. Below are the 2025 Citizens of Courage recipients and links to videos telling their stories:
JENNA BRIANS
Her maternal instinct and sixth sense led her to contact police in the middle of the night, who located her estranged husband as he was driving his truck off a cliff, allowing officers to rescue her twin daughters.
ERIN WILKERSON
A resilient human trafficking survivor who was arrested, testified against her trafficker and now overcomes her trauma while speaking to law enforcement, sex buyers and women in correctional facilities.
ROBERT MOORE
An off-duty security guard who witnessed a late-night shooting and came to the aid of the badly injured victim and her crying child.
A GROUP OF GOOD SAMARITANS
A group of individuals who each stopped on the freeway to help a CHP officer who had been shot. Without this selfless group effort and the role each person played, the officer likely would not have survived.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Citizens-of-Courage-Awards-2025-Group-Photo-.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-04-07 16:58:00
2025-04-07 16:58:14
DA Honors Seven Local Heroes at ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: $1 Million in Restitution Ordered From Plumbing Contractor
Link to: $1 Million in Restitution Ordered From Plumbing Contractor
$1 Million in Restitution Ordered From Plumbing Contractor
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2025: Jenna Brians
Link to: Citizens of Courage 2025: Jenna Brians
Citizens of Courage 2025: Jenna Brians
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
