Meet Deputy DA Aliyah Redic - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Aliyah Redic
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Aliyah Redic
, who has been with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since 2022. Aliyah was born and raised in San Diego County and her first job out of law school was with the San Bernardino District Attorney’s Office. She is currently assigned to the Superior Court Felony Trial Team, where she tries a variety of felony cases ranging from vehicle code violations to attempted murders and murders.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“With a family legacy of proud veterans, public service was second nature.  I have always been passionate about giving back to my community. I chose to become a prosecutor because it aligned with my passion, advocating for victims.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“As a prosecutor, the primary goal is justice. The pursuit of justice is incredibly rewarding.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“The legacy and achievements we honor during
Black History Month
are what made it possible for me to be both a first-generation college graduate, and a first-generation attorney. To me, black history serves as a reminder that anyone can make a difference. That personal perspective underscores the broader significance of recognizing and honoring Black history. Black History Month is important because it honors the profound impact, resilience, and achievements of the black community.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Aliyah-Redic.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-23 10:47:45
2026-02-23 10:47:45
Meet Deputy DA Aliyah Redic
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Vivint Solar to Pay $4.3 Million Consumer Settlement for Misleading Customers
Link to: Vivint Solar to Pay $4.3 Million Consumer Settlement for Misleading Customers
Vivint Solar to Pay $4.3 Million Consumer Settlement for Misleading Custome...
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
