District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting Victims of Crime - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced that a second
One Safe Place (OSP)
location opened today in National City with a ceremonial ribbon cutting attended by more than 100 community leaders, victim advocates, health professionals and law enforcement partners who all play a role in supporting victims of crime.
One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center
joins the first
OSP
location which opened in San Marcos in 2022 and has served nearly 9,000 individuals, primarily victims of domestic violence.
[
WATCH THIS VIDEO OF OSP SOUTH
]
“This dream project to regionalize the evidence-based Family Justice Center model to protect crime victims, safeguard children and seniors from harm, prevent homelessness driven by domestic violence and human trafficking, and dismantle generational cycles of trauma that lead to incarceration and victimization has now become a reality for our South County region,” said DA Stephan. “We want the community to know that the doors are now open so they can take advantage of this state-of-the-art center focused on the trifecta of hope, healing, and justice.”
Individuals living in, or near south San Diego County will no longer need to travel to several different locations across the region to receive forensic sexual assault examinations, child forensic interviews, volunteer attorney support for restraining orders, crisis intervention and safety planning for domestic violence, human trafficking and elder abuse, and other essential victim services. The South County Family Justice Center is partnered on site with both of San Diego County’s nationally accredited child advocacy centers, Rady Children’s and Palomar Hospitals, along with more than 50 community partners that have committed to be a part of our collaborative care model to transform the lives of victims.
“The opening of One Safe Place in National City is an important step forward for our South County families,” said San Diego County Supervisor Paloma Aguirre. “For too long, South County residents in crisis had to travel far from home to access critical victim services. This changes that. This center ensures that survivors who live in South San Diego have access to the care, compassion, and the justice they deserve.”
“One Safe Place is an essential lifeline for children and families, serving as a safe haven during times of crisis,” said Payal Beam, Vice President, Mental, Behavioral & Developmental Services Institute at Rady Children’s Hospital San Diego. “Rady Children’s is grateful for the opportunity to provide critical support, direction and a renewed sense of hope when families need it most.”
Located at 401 Mile of Cars Way in National City,
One Safe Place
provides no-cost crisis-intervention services to anyone who has experienced family violence, child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, hate crimes, elder abuse, human trafficking, violent loss, or other crimes. Child and adult victims of abuse and their families will be assessed for risk and need and can receive acute crisis-care, forensic medical exams, advocacy, counseling, therapy, legal services like restraining orders, connections to a safe shelter and housing, long term mentoring, workforce readiness, clothing, and educational opportunities, all under one roof.
While existing service providers provide excellent support in our county’s north and south regions for victims, there was little interconnectivity, and providers often operated in silos, rather than under one umbrella of victim care. Co-located professionals at
One Safe Place
, San Diego County’s Family Justice Centers include victim advocates, nurses, medical professionals, counselors, attorneys, housing navigators, childcare professionals, work-readiness coaches, law enforcement and more.
One Safe Place
is a multi-agency service center that focuses on reducing the number of times victims tell their story, the number of places victims must go for help, and increasing access to services and support for victims and their children.
“One Safe Place helped me start to heal,” said domestic violence survivor Brenda M. “I walked in feeling lost but left feeling like I could breathe again. Now, One Safe Place makes me feel hopeful. Every time I walk in, I feel a sense of pride in knowing that I’m moving forward and that I will get an opportunity to start again and reflect on how far I’ve come.”
The Family Justice Center model was started by then City Attorney Casey Gwinn in the City of San Diego 22 years ago and grew into a model of victim support nationally and internationally. The City of San Diego’s Family Justice Center continues under the leadership of current City Attorney Heather Ferbert and is a sister center to the two county Family Justice Centers led by DA Stephan in the North and South County.
“To be able to provide vital, wraparound services and help restore dignity to those in our community who have been cast aside or victimized is nothing short of incredible,” said Chula Vista Police Chief Roxana Kennedy. “Law enforcement’s role doesn’t end with an arrest – it continues by ensuring survivors have access to the support and resources they need to rebuild their lives. Our department is proud to stand alongside the District Attorney’s Office and our regional partners in serving victims and their families through One Safe Place.”
One Safe Place: the North County Family Justice Center
has been lauded by the community and since opening its doors three years ago has provided case management services to more than 9,000 individuals, conducted more than 900 forensic interviews and over 700 forensic medical examinations for victims of assault, and provided 5,500 legal services including assisting with temporary restraining orders.
One Safe Place
is part of the Family Justice Center Alliance. The Family Justice Center model has been identified as a best practice in the field of domestic violence intervention and prevention services by the United States Department of Justice.
One Safe Place
is host to an onsite Trauma Recovery Center designated by California’s Victim Compensation Board and two accredited Child Advocacy Centers.
Individuals can contact either location of
One Safe Place
at
gethope@OSPsandiegocounty.gov
or at 888-440-HOPE (4673)
One Safe Place South
is open Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and the second Saturday of each month from 8:00 a.m. to noon.
More information about both OSP locations can be found at
www.OSPsandiegocounty.gov.
[
WATCH THIS VIDEO OF OSP SOUTH
]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/OSP-ribbon-cutting-10-17-25.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-10-17 12:00:07
2025-10-17 14:16:35
District Attorney Opens New One Safe Place in South County, Supporting Victims of Crime
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
Link to: Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
Meet Deputy District Attorney Norma Flores
Link to: DA Opens One Safe Place South in National City
Link to: DA Opens One Safe Place South in National City
DA Opens One Safe Place South in National City
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
