Deputy DA Honored with Legal Trailblazer Award - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Deputy DA Honored with Legal Trailblazer Award
Deputy District Attorney Sherry Thompson-Taylor was honored on Saturday at the Earl B. Gilliam Bar Foundation’s 42nd Annual Scholarship and Awards Gala Dinner with a Legal Trailblazer Award for demonstrating a significant commitment to serving the legal profession via excellence in practice, legal education, and mentoring and community service.
[TWEET THIS]
“Deputy DA Sherry Thompson-Taylor serves as Chief of one of our largest divisions, focused on worker rights, wage theft and insurance fraud,” District Attorney Summer Stephan said. “She is a powerful role model and strong leader in our office when it comes to programs pertaining to professional development, diversity and inclusion. She has opened doors for others to follow – especially women attorneys and attorneys of color. I am so proud to have Sherry on our management team and of all the work she does to help build safe and equitable communities.”
Thompson-Taylor is the Chief of the Insurance Fraud Division at the District Attorney’s Office, where she manages a team of 60 employees. Over the course of her 22-year career, she has served in other leadership positions and divisions within the DA’s Office and has prosecuted serious cases such as homicides, robberies, and cases involving sexually violent predators.
Thompson-Taylor has invested countless volunteer hours in the community and served in multiple leadership positions including President of Earl B. Gilliam Bar Association, she is the past chair of the San Diego County Bar Association’s Criminal Law Section, and Co-Chair of Lawyers Club’s Professional Advancement Committee. In the community, Sherry volunteered for numerous events over the years including the Women’s Resource Fair. In addition, she currently serves as a Girl Scout Troop Co-Leader.
[TWEET THIS]
The Earl B. Gilliam Bar Foundation is a charitable organization that represents the interests of the African-American legal community in San Diego County. The foundation provides support for diversifying the legal community, including providing scholarships for law students and support for law students and African-American legal professionals.
LEER EN ESPAÑOL
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/STT-newscenter.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2018-11-13 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:10
Deputy DA Honored with Legal Trailblazer Award
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Investigator Recognized for Cold Case Homicide Work
Link to: DA Investigator Recognized for Cold Case Homicide Work
DA Investigator Recognized for Cold Case Homicide Work
Link to: Juvenile Smuggling Prevention
Link to: Juvenile Smuggling Prevention
Juvenile Smuggling Prevention
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
