Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
, who began working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2005 as a Student Worker. He is currently an
Administrative Analyst III
in the
Human Resources Division
, where he helps coordinate recruitments for various positions within the office and handles other human resources related duties. Read more about what inspired Ronald to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“Before I started as a Student Worker at the South Bay Branch, I had a few different jobs within the County and in the private sector. Something that stuck out to me was the camaraderie within that branch. I liked it so much I spent the next 10 to 11 years of my life there. I wanted to spread that feeling throughout the office and was lucky enough to do so by joining the Human Resources team.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“The people…whether its meeting with new hires to go over paperwork or seeing old coworkers from 15 years ago, I love talking to them all.”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“I think about my parents and how they got here. I love asking them to tell me the stories on how things were in the Philippines, how they got here and how they assimilated in this new country. So, I think
AAPI Month
is a great way to celebrate the different journeys of all
AAPI
immigrants and citizens and their unique traditions and cultures.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Ronald-Agarma-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-23 12:34:53
2023-05-23 12:38:18
Meet Administrative Analyst Ronald Agarma
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Link to: DA Prosecutor and Victim Advocate Recognized for DUI Homicide Work
Link to: DA Prosecutor and Victim Advocate Recognized for DUI Homicide Work
DA Prosecutor and Victim Advocate Recognized for DUI Homicide Work
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
