DA Charges Burglary Ring Defendants Operating in Southern California - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Charges Burglary Ring Defendants Operating in Southern California
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
and San Diego Police Chief Scott Wahl announced today that nine defendants have been charged in connection with 30 burglaries in the City of San Diego, following a lengthy investigation. The investigation spanned approximately 55 residential burglaries committed in California and Nevada. The total loss for victims in San Diego County is at least $700,000.
[WATCH NEWS CONFERENCE HERE]
In San Diego County, the defendants primarily targeted homes in the Mira Mesa neighborhood from February to May of this year. A multi-agency takedown led to arrests last week in Los Angeles, and throughout Riverside County. The defendants are being arraigned in San Diego Superior Court this week.
“Stopping this prolific burglary crew took incredible coordination among law enforcement in several jurisdictions and from many different agencies,” said DA Stephan. “This prosecution sends the strong message that if criminals come to San Diego County to steal from our residents, we will track them down and hold them accountable.”
Each defendant is charged with three to 24 counts of first-degree residential burglary and conspiracy to commit burglary. If convicted of all counts, they face between eight years, eight months to 35 years-to-life in state prison depending on their level of involvement and criminal history.
“Our homes are the place we should feel safe, but these criminals took advantage of our communities to carry out their crimes,” San Diego Police Deputy Chief Paul Connelly said. “This joint investigation took great collaboration and coordination, to put a stop to a burglary series spanning two states. San Diego residents can rest assured their homes are safer because of the great investigative work of the San Diego Police Department, along with so many other law enforcement partners.”
Map of residential burglary crimes committed in this burglary series.
Nearly 100 law enforcement officers worked closely with the San Diego Police Department and the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office to conduct surveillance, serve search warrants, and make the arrests. Eleven firearms were recovered as well as large amounts of cash. Two separate groups that had a common co-conspirator committed the burglaries. The defendants reside in Riverside and Los Angeles counties. In addition to targeting San Diego County, the thieves also committed burglaries in Los Angeles, Riverside, and Orange counties.
The burglary crews were typically groups of at least three people wearing masks and gloves. They would break out rear sliding glass windows, take as many items of value as possible and then flee the scene. Many of the burglaries were essentially mini crime-sprees that took place back-to-back on the same day.
The defendants charged in the case are Amaya Armstead, 24; Timmon Betts, 23; Gregory Davis III, 19; Daniel Esquivel, 22; Tyrell Haley, 24; Nakia McBarth Jr., 22; Khaliq Thomas, 22; Noel Torres, 23; and Keshaun Watson, 18.
[WATCH NEWS CONFERENCE HERE]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Residential-Burglary-Ring-News-Conference.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-08-07 18:14:26
2024-08-07 18:16:16
DA Charges Burglary Ring Defendants Operating in Southern California
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 08-01-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 08-01-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 08-01-24
Link to: Attempted Murder Charge for Man Who Attacked MTS Bus Driver
Link to: Attempted Murder Charge for Man Who Attacked MTS Bus Driver
Attempted Murder Charge for Man Who Attacked MTS Bus Driver
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
