Meet Legislative Assistant Briana Zavala - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legislative Assistant Briana Zavala
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet Legislative Assistant Briana Zavala
, who joined the DA’s Office as a Student Worker in 2016 and became a Legislative Assistant in 2018.
Tell us a little bit about yourself, your position and how you got where you are?
I grew up in Southeast San Diego, graduated from Lincoln High School, and received a full-ride scholarship to UCSD. For most of my life, I believed in the idea of meritocracy. I believed that if you worked hard, you would be successful. However, after going to college and studying Sociology, Ethnic and Gender studies, I quickly realized that opportunity plays a major role in that equation. I am where I am today because not only did I work hard, but I was given the opportunity to be a Student Worker at the DA’s Office over five and a half years ago. I am grateful to JJ Anderson and Grace Liu for mentoring me to be the young woman I am today.
Now, as Legislative Assistant, I have the opportunity to work with office executives to create laws that will not only benefit our office but the entire state. I am proud of where I am, but I have every intention of continuing to grow within the County by taking on leadership roles. While I love the work that I do, my favorite job is being a mom to two beautiful, sweet and kind little girls.
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
Hispanic Heritage month is important to me because I am proud to be Mexican American. It is a time to celebrate diversity and acknowledge the history, culture, and achievements of the Hispanic community. I hope that during this month of celebrations we will use it as an opportunity to educate and have conversations about the lack of opportunity, resources, and marginalization that Hispanic people face to this day. Representation does not equal decolonization. As public servants, we must not only celebrate but hold ourselves accountable for more than can be done in our positions. I ask my colleagues to celebrate this month by reading about mental health barriers in the Hispanic community. The article can be found
here
.
¡Si se puede! Together we can, and together we will.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Briana-Zavala.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2021-10-08 09:00:04
2021-10-06 20:56:37
Meet Legislative Assistant Briana Zavala
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Tragedy Becomes Inspiration
Link to: Tragedy Becomes Inspiration
Tragedy Becomes Inspiration
Link to: Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Link to: Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
