Crew of Five Target FedEx Delivery Trucks Carrying Louis Vuitton Merchandise - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Crew of Five Target FedEx Delivery Trucks Carrying Louis Vuitton Merch...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced robbery, theft and carjacking charges against five defendants who worked together to target FedEx delivery trucks containing high-end merchandise from designer brand Louis Vuitton.
Deshawn Birden, 34, Jamal Buck, 33, Stephen Buck, 30, Maurice Cyrus, 29, and Frederick Jackson, 25, have each been charged with several felony counts in relation to the five incidents and face between seven years and four months and life in prison if convicted.
“This crew violently targeted lucrative luxury merchandise transported by FedEx,” DA Stephan said. “Their crime spree is over, and these defendants will begin facing justice and accountability for their bad acts.”
Between July 2024 and June 2025, the defendants stole over $667,000 worth of Louis Vuitton merchandise including sunglasses, handbags, shoes and belts. In one instance, they stole 25 boxes of designer products from the Fashion Valley Shopping Center during a scheduled delivery. In another instance, the driver fought off the gun wielding suspect, forcing the suspect to abandon his plan. On three occasions, the defendants intercepted and car jacked a delivery truck with the use of a firearm as the driver was getting gasoline and drove the truck to a pre-staged area where they were prepared with getaway vehicles to load the stolen merchandise into. In each case they were dressed in clothing that disguised their appearance from head to toe.
None of the merchandise has been recovered.
“These items are stolen with the express purpose of eventually being sold to unsuspecting consumers,” DA Stephan said. “We are grateful to the San Diego Police Department and the FBI for their partnership in this investigation and helping identify the defendants.”
Defendants Stephan Buck and Maurice Cyrus pleaded not guilty at arraignment today and are next due in court on May 14 for a readiness hearing. Buck was released on supervised own recognizance, and Cyrus is being held on no bail. The three additional defendants in this case are awaiting extradition to San Diego and will be arraigned at a future date.
Deputy District Attorney Cassidy McWilliams is prosecuting this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Court-Gavel-and-book.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-05-06 16:13:45
2026-05-07 16:18:36
Crew of Five Target FedEx Delivery Trucks Carrying Louis Vuitton Merchandise
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to Prison
Man Who Stabbed Girlfriend to Death the Day After Christmas, Sentenced to P...
Link to: Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Collaborative; Sign MOU in Sacramento
Link to: Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Collaborative; Sign MOU in Sacramento
Tribal Chairpersons, DA, Sheriff Announce Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
