Meet Paralegal Elyse Emge - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Paralegal Elyse Emge
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and their contributions to our community. Meet
Paralegal Elyse Emge
who started her career at the DA’s Office in April of 2022. Prior to coming to the DA’s office, Elyse worked as a Child Support Officer at the Department of Child Support Services. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career at the DA’s Office?
“I have always had a passion in the criminal field. I moved from Pennsylvania to California in 2018. From 2016 – 2017, I worked for the York County DA’s office as a Confidential Secretary and Extraditions Coordinator. In 2017, I was recruited by the State and went to work for the Governor’s Office of General Counsel as a Criminal Justice Specialist. In this role, I handled statewide extraditions, interstate compacts, and worked on capital cases post appeals.
I went through and witnessed a lot in my adolescence. These hardships instilled in me a desire to do what I could to work against injustices; to advocate for those who need a voice; and to do what I can to ensure the process is fair and transparent. It’s important that those responsible are held accountable for their actions and/or get the help they need.
I’d have to say the favorite part of my job is the shared sense of camaraderie amongst my colleagues. We’re working towards the same goal. I also feel like I’m part of something bigger than myself. It’s a humbling experience.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“Black History Month
, like many months of recognition, are important because they bring awareness to the continued struggles of marginalized people. It’s important to bring awareness and remember the history of where we, as a people, have come from; to see where we are now; and continue to grow and learn from that history. It’s also important to teach the true, unadulterated facts of our past so we do not repeat those mistakes.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Elyse-Emge-DA-news-photo.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-22 11:55:03
2023-02-22 12:43:08
Meet Paralegal Elyse Emge
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Link to: Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Meet Administrative Paralegal Mary Dickerson-Shaw
Link to: Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Link to: Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Two Men Sentenced for Organized Retail Theft
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
