DA, One Safe Place and the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego Sign Updated Agreement to Support Victims - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA, One Safe Place and the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego Sign...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
and Ambassador Alicia Kerber Palma, Consul General of Mexico signed today a renewed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that strengthens a vital partnership between the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office
One Safe Place: The San Diego County Family Justice Centers
, and the
Mexican Consulate
. The updated agreement reinforces a collaborative commitment to support victims of crime who live, work, or travel on both sides of the U.S.–Mexico border.
The MOU formalizes continued cooperation to connect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, child abuse, and other forms of victimization with critical services in the region. Through this partnership, the institutions will coordinate outreach, share resources, and provide cross-referrals to ensure victims can access culturally sensitive support services regardless of which side of the border they are on.
“Every day, thousands of people move between San Diego and Tijuana for work, school and family, likewise, crime and victimization do not stop at the border, and neither should our support for victims of domestic violence, human trafficking and elder abuse,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “Through this partnership between One Safe Place and the Mexican Consulate, we are strengthening a cross-border network of care so victims can access safety, services and justice wherever they are. Our goal is to ensure that no human being falls through the cracks because of geography or language. Our continued collaboration with the Mexican Consulate and innovative leader Consul General Alicia Kerber Palma strengthens trust within our binational community and ensures that victims who come to One Safe Place receive help in their language, in a culturally responsive way, and with a focus on safety, justice and healing.”
Since opening in July 2022,
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center in San Marcos
and then in October 2025,
One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center in National City
, the DA’s two family justice centers have served over 12,000 victims and survivors by providing comprehensive support services under one roof. The centers offer assistance to individuals affected by domestic violence, child abuse, sexual assault, elder abuse, hate crimes, human trafficking, violent loss, and other forms of victimization. Services include legal assistance, counseling, advocacy, and connections to community resources, all designed to support survivors on their path toward safety and healing.
“Providing assistance and protection to the Mexican community is our highest priority, and the MOU that we have signed with the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office is a strong additional tool with which the Consulate strives to facilitate legal resources, advice, and a more effective access to justice for Mexican nationals and their families who are victims of domestic violence, abuse, trafficking and other crimes,” said Ambassador Alicia Kerber Palma, Consul General of Mexico in San Diego.
The
Mexican Consulate in San Diego
continues to play an important role as a partner at One Safe Place, participating in community outreach, prevention initiatives, and providing consular services for Mexican nationals. Consulate staff also collaborate on educational events such as
“Cafecito Con La Comunidad,”
a monthly gathering that connects the community with resources, information, and support services.
One Safe Place
: The North County Family Justice Center is located at 1050 Los Vallecitos Blvd., San Marcos, CA 92069.  The center is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the
first
Saturday of the month from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.
One Safe Place
: The South County Family Justice Center is located at 401 Mile of Cars Way, National City, CA 91950. The center is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the
second
Saturday of the month from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/03/03-26-26-MOU-signing-with-Consulate-and-OSP1-1.jpg
1066
1600
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-03-26 13:07:08
2026-03-26 13:07:47
DA, One Safe Place and the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego Sign Updated Agreement to Support Victims
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired Products
Link to: Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired Products
Walgreen Co. Resolves Allegations of Price Overcharges and Selling Expired ...
Link to: DA, San Jose Mayor, Senator Blakespear & Treatment Providers Join Forces Calling for State to Fund Prop. 36
Link to: DA, San Jose Mayor, Senator Blakespear & Treatment Providers Join Forces Calling for State to Fund Prop. 36
DA, San Jose Mayor, Senator Blakespear & Treatment Providers Join Forces...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
