DA Appoints David Greenberg as New Assistant DA - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Appoints David Greenberg as New Assistant DA
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan appointed David Greenberg as the Assistant District Attorney following
Jesus “Jesse” Rodriguez’ retirement last month
. Greenberg has been a prosecutor for the San Diego District Attorney’s Office rising through the ranks for over 32 years. For the last 8 years, he served as Chief Deputy District Attorney overseeing various divisions within the DA’s Office, including Family Protection, Case Issuance, Gangs, Superior Court, Collaborative Courts and Information Technology.
[TWEET THIS]
As Assistant DA, Greenberg will serve directly under the elected DA and direct all prosecution, investigative and support operations. He will oversee, with the DA’s administrative team, an agency-wide staff of more than 1,000 employees and a budget of $193 million.
“Dave brings his exceptional leadership and prosecutorial experience, sound judgment and unique expertise in leveraging technology innovations to this critical public safety position as second in command in our office,” said District Attorney Summer Stephan. “I look forward to working alongside Assistant DA Dave Greenberg to fulfill our mission of pursuing a fair and equal justice for all, protection of victims of crime, prosecution of those who harm our neighborhoods and smart crime prevention.”
During his distinguished three decades serving our region, Greenberg handled and tried serious felony cases, including murders with special circumstances and sexual assault cases. He has served in leadership positions within the DA’s Office that have included Chief of the South, East and North County Branches, Central Pretrial and Superior Court. In 2009, he worked as an Assistant San Diego City Attorney in charge of the Criminal Division.
He graduated with a History Degree from UCLA and received his Juris Doctorate from the University of San Diego.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/David-Greenberg.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-01-09 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:14
DA Appoints David Greenberg as New Assistant DA
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Vows Fair and Equal Justice at Swearing In
Link to: DA Vows Fair and Equal Justice at Swearing In
DA Vows Fair and Equal Justice at Swearing In
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Link to: Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in Ceremony
Prosecutor Summer Stephan Promises Fair and Fair Justice During Swearing-in...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
