Meet Investigative Specialist Arnel Alamo - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Investigative Specialist Arnel Alamo
In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we are highlighting compelling stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
DA Investigative Specialist Arnel Alamo
, who has been part of the District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation (BOI) since 2006. He conducts low end investigations and serve criminal subpoenas throughout the County. He also performs a wide variety of investigative functions related to the DA’s Bureau of Investigations.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“When I was a college student pursuing my Criminal Justice degree, I interned at the Public Defender’s Office and the Chula Vista Police Department Crime Lab. My experience in my internship motivated me to pursue a career in public service. I have always enjoyed interacting with the public and working with our Criminal Justice System. Working for the District Attorney’s Office gave me the opportunity to do both.”
Why is AAPI Heritage Month important to you?
“With the current climate towards Asians, I think it is important to highlight and share – whether it’s through their voices, food, entertainment, or music – the contributions Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have made towards US history. AAPI month celebrates our culture and heritage while reflecting on our families’ sacrifices for an opportunity for a brighter future for the next generation.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/AAPI-Heritage-Month-DA-Employees-2-1.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-05-28 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:21:27
Meet Investigative Specialist Arnel Alamo
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Link to: Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Convicted Murderer Mark Rogowski Seeking Parole
Link to: New Program to Keep Minors Out of the Criminal Justice System
Link to: New Program to Keep Minors Out of the Criminal Justice System
New Program to Keep Minors Out of the Criminal Justice System
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
