Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of
May
, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
, who began working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office in 2016. He is currently a Senior DA Investigator assigned to the
Computer and Technology Crimes High Tech Task Force (CATCH) Team
in the Economic Crimes Division, where his primary duties are digital forensic examinations and high-tech investigations, as well as testifying in a variety of cases from a digital forensics’ perspective. Read more about what inspired Felipe to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“When I was in college, I had an aptitude for tech, but I wanted a career that did not involve sitting in front of a computer. I joined the military reserves and a good number of personnel in my unit were in law enforcement. I really enjoyed the camaraderie and the common goal of trying to make the world a safer place. Fast forward many years, when I was assigned to CATCH as an outside agency personnel, I really liked the family atmosphere here at the DA’s Office and the goal of pursuing justice and protecting victims. I applied and was offered a DAI assignment to the same unit I enjoyed working at. Looking back, it was the many mentors in the law enforcement community that shaped me. It was the mentoring that led me to choose a career in law enforcement.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I really like how I can apply my skills to provide more insight into the who, what, when, and how. The digital world encompasses everyone from defendants to victims and witnesses. I find digital evidence to be challenging and dynamic. I really enjoy explaining my findings from the digital domain.”
What does Asian American and Pacific Islander Month mean to you/why is it important to you?
“
AAPI Month
to me recognizes and celebrates the diversity of everyone such as heritage, cultural and up bringing. I grew up in a unique background growing up as an Asian American living along the U.S and Mexican border. I also believe with diversity we all share similarities in many ways. For those that know me, I love to eat and to try different foods.
AAPI Month
for me is also centered around food because sharing a meal together brings everyone closer.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Felipe-Chee-DAnews.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-05-15 10:35:55
2023-05-24 13:19:43
Meet Senior DA Investigator Felipe Chee
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Link to: Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Meet Criminal Legal Secretary Kaitlyn Kueter
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Link to: Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Meet Legal Support Manager Nathaniel Amarento
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
