Meet Victim Assistance Program Supervisor Annamarie Francisco - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Victim Assistance Program Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Victim Assistance Program Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
, who has been at the DA’s Office for the past eight years. She is currently assigned to the
North County Branch Superior Court Division
. She directly
assists victims in the aftermath of a crime
– this includes providing emergency-related services like assistance with relocation or funeral/burial expenses through CalVCB; assisting with safety planning and making referrals to
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
or other community agencies to help a victim leave a dangerous situation; providing crisis intervention and always approaching victims with trauma informed care; educating the victim about the criminal justice process, providing updates and accompanying the victim to court; informing the victim of their rights under
Marsy’s Law
; acting as a liaison between the victim and our office/law enforcement, among other duties. She currently supervises a team of advocates (with
Ollie the Court Dog!
) in North County, where they work misdemeanors and felonies of all crime types. She also interviews potential candidates for vacant Victim Advocate positions and she present trainings regarding our program to recruits at the San Diego Regional Academy and other community service agencies. Annamarie is also a part of the Crisis Response Team, which is called out to provide crisis intervention to victims of mass violence incidents or incidents that affect the greater community. She is also a member of the San Diego Anti-Hate Coalition and enjoys working with other government and community agencies to combat hate. Within the DA’s Office, she is a member of the Peer Support Team for the office- if you or anyone you know is a DA employee dealing with a critical incident or personal problem and would like to talk it out with a peer, the Peer Support Team is here for you and only a phone call or e-mail away. Read more about what inspired Annamarie to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below, or meet her in
THIS VIDEO
.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“Growing up, my parents instilled within me an appreciation for and purpose in service to country and to the public. My dad was in the chosen three out of 300 applicants to be recruited for the US Navy out of the Philippines – he proudly served for 26 years. My mom did a few years in the County before she went on to have a long career in the US Postal Service. My sister is a Captain in the US Army and many of my aunts, uncles and cousins have served or are currently serving in the armed forces. Victim advocacy is a career that I fell into and ended up falling in love with. Since the first homicide I ever worked, I’ve found purpose in consoling those in crisis, providing information to those who are lost, and acting as an emotional support and guide for victims as they navigate the criminal justice process. I’m proud to be a team member of an office that combats crime, pursues justice, and holds those who threaten our safety and well-being accountable for their actions.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“Both of my parents left their home country of the Philippines to pursue the American Dream – the belief that hard work, determination, and grit would bring with it an assortment of opportunities and a better life. I visited my parents’ hometowns in the Philippines, and it gave me a new perspective and a deeper appreciation for all the sacrifices my parents made so that my two sisters and I could have the best of everything. I was also lucky to have grown up with both sets of grandparents, who lived through devastating events like the Bataan Death March during WWII and survived and thrived.
AAPI
to me is honoring, remembering, preserving, celebrating, sharing, and all those other beautiful verbs where we come from, who we are, and where we’re going. It’s connecting with people like us, educating others not like us, sharing our tradition and cuisines, and celebrating what makes us unique.”
WATCH a video about Victim Assistance Program Supervisor Annamarie Francisco, here.
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AAPI-month-DAnews-Annamarie-Francisco.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-30 08:00:27
2024-05-29 20:17:54
Meet Victim Assistance Program Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: 50 Years-to-Life in Domestic Violence Case
Link to: 50 Years-to-Life in Domestic Violence Case
50 Years-to-Life in Domestic Violence Case
Link to: AAPI: Meet VAP Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
Link to: AAPI: Meet VAP Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
AAPI: Meet VAP Supervisor Annamarie Francisco
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
