Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
, who was born and raised in Memphis, Tennessee.  Her family is a military family, so before joining the DA’s Office she was in Manama, Bahrain where she was a director of the Child Development Center. Tonya joined our office in 2007 as an Interim Clerk (Office Assistant) and she is currently the Legal Support Manager at the North County Branch. In her current role, she manages the overall operations of the North County Regional Center, ensuring staff growth and development. The North County Branch receives cases from approximately 12 law enforcement agencies in the area.
During her free time, Tonya loves to sing and spend time with her family. “My faith in God is the priority of my life, and I enjoy using my gifts and talents to bless others,” she said. “I have fostered 7 children and adopted 3; I have worked with many other children during the past 20 years to help them overcome the challenges that they face and find renewed hope for their future.”
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“The main reason I was inspired to work at the DA’s office is my strong belief and commitment to justice. I believe that one of the necessary requirements to living a life of peace and freedom is justice. Where there is no justice, the people suffer and live in fear. I am thankful for the opportunity to work in a profession that is dedicated to serving the community through instilling law and order.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I love to mentor, inspire, and observe the growth and development of our staff. I enjoy watching people obtain success at every level in the workplace and become confident and thrive in their chosen profession.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“
Black History Month
helps us to remember and recognize the accomplishments of the black community throughout history that are often overlooked. From history, we have many black leaders that dedicated their life to freedom, justice, and the fair treatment of all people. These ideals are based on the Bible, that all men are created in the image of God and that every man has a God created purpose and plan. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who often risked and ultimately gave up his life so that all people will be seen as a person and not labeled according to the color of their skin stated, ‘That men should be judged by their character and not by the color of their skin.’ These ideals should be important to us all and should be fought for in a peaceful manner. Lastly, Black History Month to me also highlights what great things we as human beings can accomplish when we embrace our differences as such and not as right or wrong. When we work together as a human race and respect each other and treat each other with love and care. Abraham Lincoln stated, ‘That all men are created equal.’ I believe that Black History Month should serve as a reminder of who we all are, and that we should all strive to become a better ‘united’ us.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Tonya-Bailey.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-25 09:00:37
2026-02-24 17:30:19
Meet Legal Support Manager Tonya Bailey
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Meet Deputy DA Christopher Chandler
Link to: Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother
Link to: Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew, and Shooting his Mother
Point Loma Man Sentenced to Life Without Parole for Executing Sister and Nephew,...
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
