Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach
In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we are highlighting compelling stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Hung Bach
who is currently working at the Juvenile Branch and is also a board member and secretary of the National Asian Pacific Islanders Prosecutors Association.
Why did you decide to work at the DA’s Office?
“I have always wanted to ‘do the right thing’ in life, both inside and outside of the office, and both in my professional life and personal life.  Our office personifies ‘doing the right thing’ day in and day out – attaining justice by protecting our community, advocating for our victims, holding defendants accountable for their crimes, rehabilitating defendants, and preventing future crimes. I’m truly honored and humbled to be part of this office as we all strive to ‘do the right thing’ every day.
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“AAPI Month is important to me because it reminds me of where I came from: My parents and relatives immigrated here during the midst of the Vietnam War. My family risked life and limb in order to live here in the United States, and I am forever grateful and in debt to my family. And because of that, I want to do right by them by working in this office and making them proud.  I never forget where I came from. In light of all of the hate crimes/incidents against the AAPI community, this month serves as a beacon of pride and unity for the AAPI community so that we can be proud of who we are and where we came from.”
Read more stories for AAPI Heritage Month:
Deputy DA Leonard Trinh
Deputy DA Fanny Yu
Chief Deputy DA Jerrilyn Malana
DA Investigator Bao Luu
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/AAPI-Heritage-Month-DA-Employees-1-1.png
720
1280
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2021-05-17 00:00:00
2021-06-26 10:22:54
Meet Deputy DA Hung Bach
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu
Link to: Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu
Meet DA Investigator Bao Luu
Link to: DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
Link to: DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
DA Rolls Out Innovative Juvenile Diversion Program
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
