Meet the Assistant Director of Prevention and Intervention Programs Martin Arias - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet the Assistant Director of Prevention and Intervention Programs Martin...
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet the
Assistant Director of Prevention and Intervention Programs Martin Arias
, who has been with the DA’s Office since 2016.
Tell us a little bit about yourself, your position and how you got where you are?
My parents were born in Mexico and immigrated to the US 30 years ago. I am first generation born in the US and am also the first to graduate from a university in my family. I graduated from San Diego State University in 2015. I started working at the District Attorney’s Office as a Crime Prevention Specialist five years ago and am now the Assistant Director of Prevention and Intervention Programs.
As the Assistant Director, I focus on making sure the CARE Center’s needs, as well as those of the staff, are met. Additionally, I build and nurture meaningful community partnerships so that we can continue to provide resources and services to the community.
Latinos are heavily underrepresented in public service and law enforcement, but are the largest minority group. I decided to pursue a career in public service and law enforcement so that I can help give a voice to those who have historically not had one.
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to honor and remember our ancestors, roots, culture, and all things that Latinos have accomplished. It is important because we should always be proud of where we come from and it should serve as a reminder to us that we can accomplish anything we set our minds to.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Martin-Arias.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2021-10-12 09:00:14
2021-10-12 13:10:12
Meet the Assistant Director of Prevention and Intervention Programs Martin Arias
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Link to: Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Meet Senior Accountant Karen Castillo McCabe
Link to: Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Link to: Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Fatal DUIs Continue to Spike
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
