DA Summer Stephan Elected National DA Association President for Historic 75th Year - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Summer Stephan Elected National DA Association President for Historic...
The
National District Attorneys Association (NDAA)
has elected
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan
as its president for the 2024-2025 term. Stephan was sworn in at NDAA’s annual Summer Summit in Boise, Idaho on Monday July 15, where she chose a platform of elevating victim voices through enhanced prosecution, protection and prevention strategies. With a professional legacy marked by a relentless commitment to justice, service to her community, and innovative crime-fighting strategies, Stephan’s inauguration promises a visionary and inclusive approach to the role.
Stephan’s distinguished career is marked by a passionate devotion to protecting the most vulnerable members of society. As NDAA president, Stephan aims to elevate the role of prosecutors in safeguarding the rights of crime victims and enhancing public safety across the United States.
“It is a tremendous honor to lead the NDAA and work alongside dedicated prosecutors nationwide,” said Stephan. “Together, we will continue to implement forward-thinking strategies that ensure justice, promote public trust, and protect our communities.”
Since becoming the elected District Attorney for San Diego County in 2018, Stephan has led one of the nation’s largest DA offices, with a professional staff of 1,000 employees, serving as the People’s prosecutor for over 3.3 million people. Under her leadership, the office has launched numerous initiatives that are viewed as justice models nationwide, including the creation of a countywide school threats protocol to stop those who might carry out mass shootings before they can act, and a Juvenile Diversion Initiative that actively interrupts the school to prison pipeline. Stephan created a Blueprint for Mental Health Reform by working collaboratively to address the intersection of mental health, homelessness and the criminal justice system. She led and funded countywide de-escalation training for every San Diego County police department to better protect the lives of community members and officers, and opened a state-of-the-art Family Justice Center. Stephan’s focus on protecting seniors led to a first of its kind Elder Justice Taskforce. Her office is laser focused on the prosecution of hate crimes and deadly fentanyl dealers. Stephan also formed a specialized team to effectively combat Organized Retail theft which is plaguing our nation.
Summer Stephan is recognized as a national leader in combatting human trafficking and sexual exploitation and has been named
Angel of Anti Human Trafficking
. She pioneered San Diego’s Sex Crimes and Human Trafficking Division and co-chairs the National Association of Women Judges Human Trafficking committee. Stephan is a fierce fighter for crime victims, personally trying many high-profile murder and rape cases and ensuring the testing of every rape kit in San Diego County. Her contributions to public service have earned her numerous accolades, including the U.S. Attorney General’s Award for Meritorious Public Service in 2023, the highest public service award from the U.S. Department of Justice. In 2022, she was named one of
The
Best Five Prosecutors in America.
“Summer Stephan’s leadership and vision will undoubtedly guide NDAA to new heights,” said outgoing president Charlie Smith. “Her dedication to justice and innovative approach to prosecution make her an outstanding choice to lead our association.”
Before she was elected District Attorney, Stephan served as a Deputy District Attorney in San Diego County for 28 years, trying over 100 jury trials, including complex homicides, sex crimes against children, and human trafficking cases. She graduated from the University of California, Davis, and earned her Juris Doctor from the University of the Pacific, McGeorge School of Law.
In addition to Stephan’s election, NDAA elected the following prosecutors to the 2024 – 2025 Slate of Officers:
President-Elect:
Tim Cruz, District Attorney, Brockton, MA
Chairman of the Board:
Charlie Smith, State’s Attorney, Frederick, MD
Secretary/Treasurer:
Jennifer Webb-McRae, County Prosecutor, Bridgeton, NJ
Vice Presidents:
Greg Banks, Prosecuting Attorney, Coupeville, WA
Spencer Merriweather, District Attorney, Charlotte, NC
Mark Dupree, District Attorney, Kansas City, KS
Directors-at-Large:
Ivan Bates, State’s Attorney, Baltimore City, MD
Kevin Barton, District Attorney, Hillsboro, OR
Rich Gibson, State’s Attorney, Ellicott City, MD
Lorrin Freeman, District Attorney, Raleigh, NC
Michael Ferrarese, District Attorney, Norwich, NY
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/NDAA-Summer-Swearing-In-DAnews-HOJ-back.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-07-17 12:00:00
2024-07-18 13:09:09
DA Summer Stephan Elected National DA Association President for Historic 75th Year
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 07-11-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 07-11-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 07-11-24
Link to: Juvenile Homicide Case Referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office
Link to: Juvenile Homicide Case Referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office
Juvenile Homicide Case Referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
