DA Cold Case Unit Honored - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA Cold Case Unit Honored
On January 9, 2011, Darryl Hunter and his adult son Keith Butler were shot and killed after an altercation with a man at the corner of 30th and C Streets in the city of San Diego. Hunter was shot four times and Butler was shot in the back while fleeing the scene. The San Diego Police Department identified Marlon Johnson as the main suspect but he eluded the police and fled California before being interviewed.
In 2016, SDPD presented the case to the San Diego County District Attorney’s Cold Case Unit, and shortly afterwards Johnson was located in Arkansas, was arrested and extradited to San Diego. The case was handled by Deputy District Attorney Valerie Summers and District Attorney Investigator Sandra Oplinger. However, the complicated prosecution resulted in two mistrials with hung juries; it was not until the third trial in January 2019 when a jury found Johnson guilty of second-degree murder for Butler and Hunter and guilty of shooting at a vehicle.
On Thursday, the
California District Attorney Investigators Association
recognized DAI Oplinger as DA Investigator of the Year and DDA Summers as Prosecutor of the Year for their hard work and perseverance in delivering justice this case. The awards were presented during CDAIA’s annual convention which was held this week in San Diego.
[TWEET THIS]
“Valerie Summers and Sandra Oplinger exemplify the incredible work of our Cold Case Unit, which takes on the tough mission of solving cases that have often hit a dead end,” said San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan. “They both refused to give up and ultimately delivered justice for the victims’ family.”
Prior to the start of the first trial, DAI Oplinger identified another vehicle that had been part of the original crime scene and helped identify the position of the shooter at the time of the murders. There were more than 80 witnesses called to testify in all three trials, and DDA Summers met with all of them in preparation for the trial, some of which were initially hesitant to testify.
Each year, the California District Attorney Investigators’ Association presents the Joe McClure Investigator of the Year Award to an investigator to recognize outstanding achievement by a District Attorney Investigator as voted upon by the Association. In 2004, the CDAIA began recognizing California Prosecutors with the annual CDAIA Prosecutor of the Year Award to acknowledge the exemplary work by the nominee in the pursuit of justice and promoting and maintaining a positive working relationship with Investigators from their office for that year.
[TWEET THIS]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/CDAIA-award-danews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2019-09-09 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:32
DA Cold Case Unit Honored
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: New Program Steers Low-Level Offenders Away from Convictions and Jail
Link to: New Program Steers Low-Level Offenders Away from Convictions and Jail
New Program Steers Low-Level Offenders Away from Convictions and Jail
Link to: How to Report Embezzlement Crimes
Link to: How to Report Embezzlement Crimes
How to Report Embezzlement Crimes
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
