Man who Killed Twin Daughters of Ex-Girlfriend Sentenced to Life Without Parole + 72 Years - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Man who Killed Twin Daughters of Ex-Girlfriend Sentenced to Life Without...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that defendant Dwayne E. Groves Jr., 41, was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole plus 72 years for murdering 15-year-old twin sisters, Caira and Leah Christopher, in April 2020. Groves pleaded guilty on March 10 to two counts of first-degree murder, a special circumstance allegation of committing multiple murders, and an assault with a firearm count.
On the day of the fatal shootings, Groves arrived at his ex-girlfriend’s home and used a semi-automatic handgun to shoot his way into the residence. Once inside, he shot and killed his ex-girlfriend’s twin 15-year-old daughters, Caira and Leah. He then beat her 22-year-old son, Gary, with the gun, causing multiple lacerations to his head and breaking his arm. Groves’ ex-girlfriend, Joann Hoyt, was able to escape the residence with her younger daughters. Groves fled the scene and tried to avoid arrest but was ultimately located and taken into custody that same day. Law enforcement located the gun on scene with its serial numbers scratched off.
“Anytime that a human being is murdered, there is a sense of deep loss and pain; however, when the lives of innocent children are stolen, we are left with a gaping wound,” DA Stephan said. “This was an unspeakable crime that took the lives of two innocent twin girls who were just beginning their lives. Nothing can make up for the devastation the defendant caused to the family of the victims, but I hope this sentence provides a measure of justice and healing.”
At the preliminary hearing, Joann Hoyt testified that Groves called her just before the incident, told her he had a plan and to trust him. Shortly after hanging up, the sliding glass door to her bedroom shattered and Groves came in holding a gun. He immediately went after Caira then proceeded through the house on his murderous rampage, killing Leah and attacking Gary. Before running out of the house Hoyt overheard Groves say, “You always wanted a story to write and now you have a book.”
Deputy District Attorney Meredith Pro prosecuted this case.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Gavel-and-scales-YOUTUBE-dimensions.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-04-13 16:19:22
2023-04-13 16:19:22
Man who Killed Twin Daughters of Ex-Girlfriend Sentenced to Life Without Parole + 72 Years
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Files Criminal Charge in 101 Ash St. Case
Link to: DA Files Criminal Charge in 101 Ash St. Case
DA Files Criminal Charge in 101 Ash St. Case
Link to: DA Honors Local Heroes at Inspiring ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
Link to: DA Honors Local Heroes at Inspiring ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
DA Honors Local Heroes at Inspiring ‘Citizens of Courage’ Awards
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
