Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
, who was born and raised in Osun State located in the southern part of Nigeria.
Before joining the District Attorney’s Office, he worked as a Software Engineer for a power-sports parts and accessories retailer.  Additionally, for approximately two decades, he also worked as Information Technology Engineer, Computer Programmer, Web and Windows Application Developer, System Analyst and Software Developer for a series of employers in medical equipment, sales, marketing, traveling and banking industries.
He has been with the DA’s Office sin 2019. As Senior I.T. Engineer for the DA’s Information Technology Division, he is a web and windows application developer and a programmer, including the DA’s Case Management System application. As a web developer, he works on updating and supporting the DA’s public website as well as developing new standalone enterprise web applications that are customized to increase the organization’s productivity and efficiency.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“I joined the District Attorney’s Office to be able to use all the skills and experience that I’ve acquired over the years to contribute to society. The District Attorney’s Office is tasked with enforcing equality and protecting the rights of the less privileged through prosecuting crimes, protecting victims’ rights, and preventing crimes. Without law enforcement and accountability, there will be a breakdown of law and order so contributing my skills and experience in technology is a way of adding my own quota to the development and strengthening of my community, addressing inequality, and supporting vulnerable populations in the society.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“My favorite part of application development is putting a smile on the face of individuals after resolving their problems or when other staff use the applications that I put together to perform tasks. It gives me a sense of accomplishments when the developed applications were able to solve complex tasks for the users since I know that this alone will save lots of time and will help users to focus on other important tasks.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“
Black History Month
to me is a way of honoring and celebrating our past and present leaders and heroes who dedicated their time, energy, and life to fighting for equality and justice so that those that are coming behind them will not have to face the same type of hardship they themselves faced. It is a way of recognizing our leaders struggles for liberation and for their significant achievements.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Sunday-Fateropa.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-27 09:00:32
2026-02-24 18:17:12
Meet Senior I.T. Engineer Sunday Fateropa
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 02-26-26: Our Consumer Protection Division Gets Results!
Link to: DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 02-26-26: Our Consumer Protection Division Gets Results!
DA Weekly News with DA Summer Stephan 02-26-26: Our Consumer Protection Division...
Link to: Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
Link to: Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
Meet District Attorney Investigator Helen Williams
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
