Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
In honor of
Hispanic Heritage Month
, which runs from September 15 through October 15, we are highlighting stories from DA employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service. Meet
Paralegal Sandy Barajas
.
Sandy was born in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico, but came to the United States when she was only six months old. She grew up in San Diego County, in the community of Barrio Logan, where her family has lived for over 50 years.
She attended Southwestern College and graduated with an Associate of Arts degree in General Studies, then went directly to National University where she received her Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice. She then pursued a Pre-Law degree in Paralegal Studies at the University of San Diego.
Currently, Sandy is assigned as a
Paralegal I
for the
East County Division
, where she works on Misdemeanor DUI cases. She also serves in the County’s Peer Support Team because she has always been passionate about giving back to her community.
When she is not busy working, she loves to make her spare time useful. She currently has a business which consumes half of her time, but she also likes to stay active in her community.
“I volunteer my time and expertise to help others,” she said. “I feel I have a duty to give back and help younger women to reach their potential. Once I had women who gave to me, who mentored me, so it’s only fair that I continue to keep the ball rolling. I enjoy non-profit volunteer work.”
What inspired you to pursue a career at the DA’s Office/in law enforcement?
“There were several factors that inspired me to pursue a career at the District Attorney’s office. Firstly, I have always had a strong passion for justice and protecting the rights of individuals. Here at the DA’s Office, we believe in protecting victims, building safe neighborhoods and partnering with the community. I have worked with diverse communities for the past 20 years.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“I love to work with diverse populations and give back to my community. I believe it’s important to pay it forward and help others.”
What does Hispanic Heritage Month mean to you? Why is it important?
“Hispanic Heritage Month holds a special significance for me as it is a time to celebrate and honor the rich cultural contributions of Hispanic individuals to our society. It is also a time that I get to indulge in the beautiful traditions, history and accomplishments of the Hispanic community and to educate others about the diversity within this group. I am very passionate about my roots and that is why I decided to create a business that entails the art, culture and traditions of my Hispanic culture. As a Latina, Hispanic Heritage Month allows me to connect with my roots, showcase the beauty and resilience of my culture, and feel a sense of pride in my heritage.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Sandy-DAnews-EN.png
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-09-19 15:00:30
2024-09-20 09:44:58
Meet Paralegal Sandy Barajas
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Link to: Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Happy IT Professionals Day! Meet Senior IT Engineer Dustin Harger
Link to: Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Link to: Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Dad Who Drove off Sunset Cliffs with Twin Girls in Car Sentenced to Prison
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
