DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors at Domestic Violence Awareness Event - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors...
San Diego County District Attorney,
Summer Stephan
,
joined the San Diego Domestic Violence Council, community leaders and other social service agencies to mark the beginning of Domestic Violence Awareness Month at a ceremony at SBCS (formerly South Bay Community Services) in Chula Vista today. The annual event is meant to bring together professionals, survivors, and community members to raise awareness about domestic violence (DV) and remember those whose lives were taken in DV incidents during the previous year. This year, the event theme was “Hope and Healing, Families for Change.” This is the first event of five, with events to occur in every region of the county throughout October.
[WATCH FULL EVENT HERE]
In 2024,
seven
people were killed by a current or former intimate partner and there was
one
additional homicide victim, such as a family member, new boyfriend, or bystander, who died during domestic violence related incidents. While this is an increase from five DV homicides the prior year, overall DV homicides continue to remain lower than the average from the prior two decades.
Here is a list of domestic violence homicide victims whom officials promise will not be forgotten
. The San Diego Domestic Violence Council works with its community partners and law enforcement agencies, like the DA’s Office, to support victims in several ways.
“Domestic violence shatters lives, and no one is immune to its impact,” said
District Attorney Summer Stephan
. “To survivors, I want you to know you are not alone, and you do not have to live in fear—there are resources and people ready to stand with you. To those who choose to abuse, know this: we will hold you accountable. We are committed to breaking the cycle of generational violence. Our work does not stop in October; every day we are committed to preventing violence, delivering justice, and empowering survivors with the support they need to leave abuse behind and reclaim safe, dignified lives.”
Last year, there were 15,298 domestic violence calls for assistance made to law enforcement across San Diego County. The DA’s Office filed charges in 1,345 domestic violence cases in 2024.
One Safe Place: San Diego County Family Justice Centers
, which are managed by the DA’s Office, provide resources and services all under one roof for anyone who has experienced abuse or violence. Since opening the
One Safe Place: The North County Family Justice Center
in 2022, more than 9,000 people have been served in addition to their over 3,000 household members/dependents. This month, the DA’s Office will open
One Safe Place: The South County Family Justice Center
in National City, making it easier for victims and survivors of crime to find services all under one roof closer to them in South Bay. Just like in San Marcos, this will be a safe and healing place where anyone can obtain vital services and resources.
During the event, which included a resource fair and a candlelight vigil ceremony honoring homicide victims, De Angelo Singh shared his personal story of losing his mother and cousin to domestic violence.
“Although their lives were taken by domestic violence, their voices live on through me, my siblings, and my mission to help others,” said
De Angelo Signh
. “We, as a community, must work together to help families seek help earlier, before the domestic violence becomes deadly.”
The San Diego Domestic Violence Council is a collaboration of organizations and community members who seek to reduce and prevent domestic violence. Partner agencies include the DA’s Office, San Diego County Health and Human Services, the San Diego City Attorney’s Office, the San Diego Sheriff’s Office, and other law enforcement and social services agencies.
“Domestic violence is not a private issue, it is a community issue,” said
San Diego Domestic Violence Council President Analicia McKee-Chau
. “The effects of domestic violence echo through families, through generations – but healing is possible. Families can break cycles, survivors can rebuild, and children can unlearn the fear and grow into emotionally strong, loving adults. But it takes all of us, it takes community. This year’s theme is an important one – families for change. Families for change means families who are not afraid to talk about hard things. It means providing our kids with the tools to recognize healthy relationships. It means friends checking in, neighbors speaking up, and systems that respond with compassion and no judgement. Today we are here to remind the families in our community that we are here for them, and help is available.”
“Domestic violence is a crime that shatters families and communities, but it is not one survivors have to face alone,” said
San Diego City Attorney Heather Ferbert
. “As your City Attorney, together with
Your Safe Place — the San Diego Family Justice Center,
I am committed to ending the epidemic of domestic violence and promoting awareness of the comprehensive, free services available to people in our community experiencing relationship violence.
“As someone who has personally worked with victims of domestic violence, I’ve seen the damage it causes, including to the families,” said
Dr. Kimberly Giardina, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer for the County’s Health and Human Services Agency (HHSA)
. “It is important we use this month, and this occasion, to both remember the victims and recommit ourselves to a steady reduction in the number of cases and greater early support and services to prevent these tragedies from occurring.”
If you or someone you know is being abused by a current or former partner, call the
National Domestic Violence Hotline
(1-800-799-7233) for confidential support and assistance planning for safety. More information and resources can be found
on the DA’s website here.
The
DV Council
will host additional community events throughout October, which you can find
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/DV-awareness-Month-10-02-25-2.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2025-10-02 15:35:20
2025-10-02 16:21:29
DA, Community Leaders Commit to Advance Healing and Hope for Survivors at Domestic Violence Awareness Event
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Casinos
Link to: Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Casinos
Criminal Charges Filed Against Men Caught Cheating at Poker at Two Area Cas...
Link to: Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz
Link to: Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz
Meet Supervising DA Investigator Osvaldo Cruz
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
