Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and their contributions to our community. Meet
Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
, who has been working at the DA’s Office for a little over one year and is currently assigned to the
Priors Unit
. There Kanishia drafts letters responding to requests from other law enforcement agencies regarding criminal case status and outcomes, she certifies court documents, and prepares prior packets for Court. Kanishia also assists with reception responding to queries by the public. Read more about what inspired her to pursue a career at the DA’s Office, below.
Why did you choose a career at the DA’s Office?
“I would say the DA’s Office chose me. I was a temporary worker working at the Jacobs Center and I received a phone call for a job interview. I have prior experience working as a security guard. One of my most memorable memories working as a security guard is a post I had in Downtown San Diego, which included working with San Diego County’s Probation Department. Another memorable memory of working security was my job post at Tubman Chavez Community Center, where I was the lead security guard. If anything happened during my shift, I would have to communicate with law enforcement. I remember talking to a police officer and her words were ‘you should work with us.’ Overall, my past work experience of working with Allied Universal influenced/introduced me into the criminal justice field. My favorite part of my job is delivering the completed product to the paralegals and working reception and calling out-of-County agencies.”
Why is Black History Month important to you?
“
Black History
is important to me because it shows history and growth for
Black American
leaders who have made priceless deposits into history.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Kanishia-DAnews-PHOTO-5.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2023-02-10 09:00:15
2023-02-22 12:06:00
Meet Office Assistant Kanishia Holden
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Link to: Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Meet Paralegal Supervisor Shay Savage
Link to: Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
Link to: Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
Meet Executive Secretary Norlice Smith
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
