Meet the Chief of the Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice Division Victor Ou - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet the Chief of the Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice Division Victor...
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet the
Chief of the Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice Division Victor Ou
, who has been a Deputy District Attorney for the San Diego County DA’s Office since 2002. As Chief of the Insurance and Workplace Justice Division, Victor supervises a group of over 50 Deputy DAs, DA Investigators, paralegals and support staff and work with several partnering agencies to fight insurance fraud, complex auto theft, wage theft, and labor trafficking.  The California Insurance Code and Vehicle Code require the collection of certain fees to be set aside to support the investigation and prosecution of these types of cases, and the Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice Division manages the San Diego County DA’s Office’s allotment of such funds and directs those resources towards the effective prosecution of all forms of insurance fraud to protect workers, victims of auto theft and auto insurance fraud, and promote fair competition in the workplace. Read more about what inspired Victor to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“As with most people, my personal beliefs and values have been shaped by my upbringing and personal experiences. When I was very young, my parents immigrated to the US, and they opened a small restaurant. Their dedication to making an honest living taught me the virtues of hard work and integrity. They were robbed multiple times at gunpoint, and the restaurant was burglarized; however, they worked with local law enforcement, installed various burglar alarms and cameras, and they were resilient, continuing to work hard to support the family and teach their kids the importance of education and hard work. After law school, I initially joined the DA’s Office to get some trial experience, and as I handled cases and worked with crime victims, I immediately found that pursuit of justice and helping victims meshed with my own personal values. Prosecutors have a responsibility to protect the most vulnerable persons in society and to do so fairly and ethically, and I have cherished the opportunity to serve the community in this role for the past 22 years.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“San Diego is a wonderfully diverse community, and in our cases, there are times when victims and witnesses better communicate and identify with people from similar backgrounds and cultures. This is why diversity is important in the legal community and it is certainly valued within the DA’s Office. AAPI Month holds a profound significance for me as a Taiwanese American who grew up in a small town in California that, in the late 70’s and 80’s, could not be described as ‘diverse’ in the slightest. Having to navigate this intersection of my heritage and upbringing has given me a unique perspective and has deepened my appreciation of the diverse cultural tapestry that AAPI month celebrates. It is a time to reflect on the contributions and sacrifices of AAPI individuals who have helped shape the legal landscape and the broader society. This month is not just a personal celebration of heritage; it’s a powerful reminder of the resilience and strength that diversity brings to our communities and the justice system. It reinforces my commitment to equity and justice, honoring the legacy of those who paved the way and inspiring a more inclusive future for all.”
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/AAPI-month-DAnews-Victor-Ou.png
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-01 09:00:15
2024-05-28 12:19:24
Meet the Chief of the Insurance Fraud and Workplace Justice Division Victor Ou
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Link to: Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Citizen of Courage 2024: Antonio Jasso
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 05-02-24
Link to: DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 05-02-24
DA Weekly News Update with DA Summer Stephan 05-02-24
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
