Grand Jury Indicts 21 Defendants for Conspiring to Engage in Highly Dangerous Street Racing - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Grand Jury Indicts 21 Defendants for Conspiring to Engage in Highly Dangerous...
San Diego County District Attorney
Summer Stephan
announced today that 21 people have been indicted by a grand jury for conspiring to engage in exhibitions of speed as well as acts of illegal reckless driving and speed contests on public highways for thrill, competition, bragging rights and purposes of gaining social media fame. The charges come as law enforcement is coordinating efforts to deter and reduce illegal speed and street racing on roadways across the county.
Twenty of the twenty-one defendants were arrested or surrendered on January 6 and arraignments are scheduled for 9:30 a.m. on January 12, 13 and 15.
“Racing down our freeways at extremely hazardous speeds with reckless disregard for other drivers and families sharing the roadways is a recipe for a catastrophe,” DA Stephan said. “This indictment is a warning to anyone even thinking of engaging in a speed contest that this illegal behavior will not be tolerated and you will be held accountable.”
The grand jury heard testimony and reviewed evidence over six days before returning the indictments. The street racing conduct occurred in March of 2025 on five separate occasions in various parts of San Diego County. Defendants communicated through social media to make plans to meet at locations where they showcased their high-performance vehicles, participated in donuts and burnouts, and conspired to engage in acts of speed exhibition on freeways.
Many of the vehicles were modified, sometimes illegally, to enhance their racing performance.  Throughout the incidents, members of the conspiracy participated in multiple races on freeways, reaching speeds over 100 miles per hour and, on some occasions, in excess of 150 to 160 miles per hour. The defendants raced through and around traffic without regard for the safety of other vehicles on the roadway. Racing took place on Interstates 8, 805 and 15 as well as SR-94, and on mountain roads winding through Pauma Valley. All members of the conspiracy participated in racing events, which were filmed by various participants and later posted on social media for the purpose of gaining attention.
Illegal speed contests are highly dangerous and have caused six fatalities and numerous injuries over the last four years, underscoring the growing danger these events pose to the public. Recent fatal crashes include:
The death of a 17-year-old in Chula Vista after a suspected racer lost control in July 2025.
The death of a Point Loma jogger, who was struck by vehicles believed to be racing in December 2024.
A fatal Otay Mesa crash in which a Mustang traveling at extreme speed hit and killed a spectator at an illegal drag race in October 2021.
The death of a teenager from a Linda Vista collision that left five others seriously injured in March 2021.
The death of a grandmother as a result of a Chula Vista crash where a street-racing driver ran a red light, killing the woman and injuring her grandchildren in June 2021.
One person was killed and two severely injured after an Oceanside crash in which the drivers were seen racing moments before impact in September 2021.
“Street racing, reckless driving and illegal takeovers put lives at risk, damage our streets, and disrupt our neighborhoods,” San Diego Police Chief Scott Wahl said. “This Grand Jury indictment reflects the hard work of our investigators and shows that when residents raise concerns, the City and County take action. We are grateful for our partnership with the District Attorney’s Office and our partner agencies to hold these drivers accountable, and we will continue our operations to deter these crimes from happening on our streets.”
Photo of vehicles seized.
During its investigation into the May 2025 incidents, law enforcement seized 16 vehicles, including:
Two Dodge Charger SRTs
One Dodge Charger R/T
One Chevrolet Camaro
One Ford Mustang
Three Dodge Challenger “Hellcats”
One Dodge Charger
One BMW 8 Series
One Chevrolet Corvette
One Honda Civic Type R
One Dodge Durango SRT
Two Jeep Grand Cherokee “Trackhawks”
One McLaren.
“Street racing is illegal, reckless, and deadly, and those who choose to participate or assist should expect to be identified, arrested, and criminally prosecuted,” CHP Chief Anthony Coronado said.  “The California Highway Patrol will aggressively investigate these crimes and hold drivers, organizers, and spectators accountable. Reckless use of a vehicle endangers lives and will not be tolerated.”
The arrests were a coordinated effort that included the cooperation of multiple law enforcement agencies throughout San Diego County, including the
San Diego Police Department, California Highway Patrol, the Narcotics Task Force, the Regional Auto Theft Task Force, Chula Vista Police Department, La Mesa Police Department, San Diego Sheriff’s Office, Escondido Police Department, and the Naval Criminal Investigative Service.
This six-month investigation began with
San Diego Police Department’s Traffic Special Investigations Unit
in conjunction with the
California Highway Patrol
in response to the string of fatalities in recent years. Collectively, these tragedies highlight the severe consequences of illegal street racing across the region and the ongoing efforts by law enforcement to combat this reckless and often fatal behavior.
This case is being prosecuted by
Deputy District Attorneys Evan Andersen, Lauren Hugo, Jacob Carbajal, and Makenzie Harvey.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/Vehicles-Seized.jpg
560
746
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-01-09 16:32:40
2026-01-09 16:39:22
Grand Jury Indicts 21 Defendants for Conspiring to Engage in Highly Dangerous Street Racing
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Judge Grants Recall and Re-Sentencing Hearing for Santana High School Shooter Andy Williams Over Strong Objection by the DA’s Office
Link to: Judge Grants Recall and Re-Sentencing Hearing for Santana High School Shooter Andy Williams Over Strong Objection by the DA’s Office
Judge Grants Recall and Re-Sentencing Hearing for Santana High School Shooter...
Link to: 24 Year Prison Term for Gang Member Who Shot and Paralyzed Innocent Teen
Link to: 24 Year Prison Term for Gang Member Who Shot and Paralyzed Innocent Teen
24 Year Prison Term for Gang Member Who Shot and Paralyzed Innocent Teen
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
