Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong
In honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
, which is observed throughout the month of May, we are featuring stories of DA employees, what inspired them to pursue a career in public service and their contributions at the DA’s Office.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Garret Wong
, who has been at the DA’s Office for the past 15 years and is currently assigned to the
South Bay branch
as team leader and supervises the
Misdemeanor Trial Team
in prosecuting all misdemeanor cases for the South Bay branch office. This involves reviewing and evaluating work of misdemeanor trial attorneys, including advising and counseling misdemeanor trial attorneys in matters of law and trial strategies. Read more about what inspired Garret to pursue career in law enforcement at the DA’s Office, below, or meet him in
THIS VIDEO
.
What inspired you to pursue a career in law enforcement/ at the DA’s Office?
“Both my mother and father worked in public service for the entirety of their respective careers. My father was the first Asian American hired for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Arizona office. He was among the first Chinese-American agents assigned as part of a special task force for the FBI’s San Francisco office, where he retired after a 27 year career. My mother began her federal career with the U.S. Customs Service as the first Asian American staff attorney in Customs legal offices, working her way up to Senior Attorney before Customs transitioned to the Department of Homeland Security. She retired as the Assistant Chief Counsel in charge of the San Francisco office after working in federal service for 35 years. She was the first Asian American to hold that position and the first Chinese American attorney manager for CBP. I was raised understanding the importance of public service and serving my community. I believe this is what led me to pursuing a career as a prosecutor with the San Diego District Attorney’s Office.”
Why is AAPI Month important to you?
“Asian family values often emphasize humility and restraint above everything (this was certainly my childhood experience!). This often manifests in a reluctance to acknowledge and highlight Asian American achievements and contributions.
AAPI month
provides an opportunity to recognize and celebrate those Asian Americans who have enriched America’s history who would otherwise have intentionally remained in the background. I am very proud of my family’s history of public service to our country, and I love being able to continue that legacy through my work as a prosecutor with our office!”
WATCH a video about Deputy DA Garret Wong, here.
Read more AAPI stories from the DA’s Office,
here
.
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AAPI-month-DAnews-Garret-Wong.jpg
1440
2560
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2024-05-28 12:00:50
2024-05-29 16:40:01
Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: AAPI: Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong
Link to: AAPI: Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong
AAPI: Meet Deputy DA Garret Wong
Link to: DA Releases 2023 Annual Report
Link to: DA Releases 2023 Annual Report
DA Releases 2023 Annual Report
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
