Domestic Violence Resources Available During COVID-19 Closures - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Domestic Violence Resources Available During COVID-19 Closures
[LEER EN ESPAÑOL]
In the unprecedented circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic, we’re all affected by the crisis. This is especially true for couples and families who may be at risk of domestic violence and who are now in close quarters amid Governor Gavin Newsom’s stay at home order.
In response, District Attorney Summer Stephan is reminding the public of resources available to victims of domestic violence.
[TWEET THIS]
“We acknowledge the necessity of Governor Newsom’s order, but want to be sure we provide a lifeline to those who may be at increased risk of violence at the hands of an intimate partner,” DA Summer Stephan said. “Additional stressors such as losing a job and kids at home due to school closures can be triggers for domestic violence. We want people who are seeing warning signs of abuse or who are being abused to know that we stand ready to help them and that they shouldn’t suffer in silence.”
A new domestic violence resource website
, set up by the District Attorney’s Office, provides information in English and
Spanish
on free local services, along with an anonymous quiz that determines one’s risk for domestic violence. There is also a version of the
website for offenders
with information on how to stop the cycle of abuse. The sites were developed with a Department of Justice Domestic Violence Smart Prosecution Grant. In addition, domestic violence hotlines, resource centers and temporary restraining orders are still available during the temporary court closure. Shelters funded by Cal OES are essential services and are still operating.
[TWEET THIS]
There are also services available for victims of sexual assault, human trafficking, elder abuse, child abuse and fraud.
Red flags for abuse include:
Controlling and jealous behaviors
Threats to harm you, your children or pet
Destruction of property
Put downs or telling you that nothing you do is right
Forced sex
Withholding access to money or medical care
Shaming or embarrassing you
Saying if you get coronavirus symptoms you will get kicked out
Forcing you to do drugs or alcohol
Threatening to have you deported
If you or someone you know is in danger, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233.
There is also an
online
chat service available or you can text LOVEIS to 22522. Information is also available on the
DA’s website
.
Here is an UPDATED COMPREHENSIVE LIST of services and resources available during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Anyone in immediate danger should call 911.
[TWEET THIS]
[LEER EN ESPAÑOL]
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/images/Domestic-Violence-Resources-DAnews.jpg
320
480
danewscenter
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
danewscenter
2020-03-27 00:00:00
2021-06-25 16:20:47
Domestic Violence Resources Available During COVID-19 Closures
Recent News
Three Additional Murder Charges Filed Against Man Linked to Southcrest Human Remains Investigation
June 10, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Dwight Rhone, 74, who is currently charged with one count …
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Prosecutors Join Forces to Protect County Residents During COVID-19
Link to: Prosecutors Join Forces to Protect County Residents During COVID-19
Prosecutors Join Forces to Protect County Residents During COVID-19
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Link to: Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Beware of COVID-19 Economic Impact Payment Scams
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
