Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche - DA NewsCenter
You are here:
Home
1
/
News
2
/
Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche
In honor of
Black History Month
, which is celebrated throughout the month of February, the DA’s Office is featuring stories of employees and what inspired them to pursue a career in public service.
Meet
Deputy District Attorney Deborah La Touche
, who has been working at the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office since 2004. She was born in the Bahamas and raised in Toronto, Canada. Prior to joining the DA’s Office, she was a Public Defender at the San Diego Public Defender’s Office. She is currently assigned to the
Major Narcotics Unit
but has worked in all the branches of the DA’s Office, including Family Protection and Insurance Fraud divisions. Currently, the bulk of her cases in the Major Narcotics Unit include drug trafficking and drug sales involving hard drugs such as cocaine, methamphetamines, fentanyl, and heroin.
What inspired you to choose a career in law enforcement/at the DA’s Office?
“There were several wonderful Judges who mentored me and urged me to consider the DA’s Office. When the opportunity to apply at the DA’s Office became open, I applied and was thrilled to be considered for a position. It was a great career move on many levels as I was able to expand my legal skills, work closely with victims, and pivot into various specialized areas of criminal law. Moreover, I was impressed with the community service work that the office does, and I had the privilege of heading up the Project LEAD program and spearheading the Success Agents program at the Juvenile Branch.”
What is your favorite part of the job?
“Every day is different and the job itself entails so much, that I don’t think there’s one favorite aspect of the job—maybe that’s what I enjoy so much—the variety.”
What does Black History Month mean to you, why is it important to you?
“I am impressed by the rich history that African Americans have made here in the USA—from building the White House to inventing peanut butter that is a staple in almost every household. As an attorney I appreciate the legacy that was built by Martin Luther King, Jr., Justice Thurgood Marshall, and Charles Hamilton Houston before him. They, along with countless others helped to lay the groundwork for me to witness history being made when the first African American man, Barack Obama, was elected as the 44
th
President of the United States. And later when the first woman of color, Kamala Harris, was elected as Vice President of the United States. We have a rich history in this country, and it is important that we celebrate it not only during
Black History Month
, but throughout the year.”
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/02/Black-History-Month-Deborah-La-Touche-2.jpg
720
1280
Barbara Medina
https://danewscenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/danews_logo-summer-e1751410255309.webp
Barbara Medina
2026-02-13 14:58:55
2026-02-13 15:15:44
Meet Deputy DA Deborah La Touche
Recent News
Escondido Man Charged with Murder after Victim Dies from Severe Beating
June 3, 2026
San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephan announced today that Thomas C. Butler has been charged with murder following the …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Jack Yeh
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Meet Deputy District Attorney Min Yoon
May 28, 2026
In honor of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month, which is observed throughout the month of May, we …
Newsletter Sign-Up
Stay Connected
facebook
youtube
x
instagram
feedburner
Hall of Justice • 330 W. Broadway, San Diego, CA 92101
SanDiegoDA@sdcda.org | (619) 531-4040
Link to: Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century Ago
Link to: Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century Ago
Defendant Arraigned for Cold Case Murder that Occurred More than Half a Century...
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall
Link to: Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall
Meet Deputy DA Danielle Hall
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
