Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Pornographic Videos of Himself - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Pornographic Videos of Himself
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 4, 2023
Home
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Pornographic Videos of Himself
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 4, 2023
Case #: 22CM10478
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Pornographic Videos of Himself
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy has been charged with sexually assaulting two female inmates, including directing them to engage in sexual activity, while assigned to work at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
Arcadio Rodriguez, 30, of Stanton, pleaded not guilty today to one misdemeanor count of sexual battery, one misdemeanor count of a detention facility employee engaging in sexual activity with a confined consenting adult and one misdemeanor count of possession of a cell phone in a correctional facility.
Rodriguez faces a maximum sentence of 18 months in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts.
The deputy is accused of establishing an inappropriate relationship with two female inmates incarcerated at the Theo Lacy Facility, including sexually assaulting the inmates on multiple occasions by touching them over their jail uniforms and showing them pornographic videos of himself while they were in their housing locations.
The assaults are believed to have begun in May 2022. Rodriguez was arrested after the Orange County Sheriff’s Department launched an investigation after discovering communications regarding inappropriate sexual behavior between by a deputy toward a female inmate.
“The wellbeing of people incarcerated in our jails is an incredible responsibility that goes far beyond the simple minimum of physical safety,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Whether they are awaiting trial or are serving their sentence, inmates are completely dependent on Sheriff’s deputies and other jail staff for everything from food and medication to clothing.  To have a sworn deputy sheriff betray his oath of office to serve and protect by preying on vulnerable incarcerated individuals for his own sexual gratification is appalling. These women were awaiting trial and had no way of escaping a predator who literally held the keys to their captivity and directed them to perform sexual acts at his every whim. This is an embarrassment to the badge and to all the hardworking law enforcement professionals who carry out their duties lawfully each and every day.”
California law only allows prosecutors to charge a misdemeanor when a detention facility employee engages in sexual activity with a confined adult over the clothes instead of skin to skin. Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer is seeking a change to state law to allow prosecutors to charge the behavior as a felony or a misdemeanor.
Deputy District Attorney David McMurrin of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Arcadio Rodriguez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Them Pornographic Videos of Himself
