Woman, Man Convicted of Human Trafficking, Pimping - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Woman, Man Convicted of Human Trafficking, Pimping
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 10, 2021
Home
Press
Woman, Man Convicted of Human Trafficking, Pimping
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 10, 2021
Case # 21CF1311
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Pair attacked women with gun, bottle and held them captive under motel mattress in between “customers”
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A woman and a man have been convicted of human trafficking two women, including one victim who was kidnapped from a bus stop and held against her will.
Marquesah Troycine Fox, 35, of San Bernardino, and Anthony Larue Jackson, 44, of Rialto, were arrested by the Orange County Human Trafficking Taskforce in November 2020 after a woman had the motel clerk call police after fleeing from a room at the Travelodge in Anaheim.
The woman told police that on October 30, 2020 she was given a ride by Fox and Jackson in Ontario after a friend left her on the street without shoes or a phone. The pair promised to let the woman stay in their motel room, but instead stole her identification and told her Jackson was going to be her pimp.
Over a six-day period the woman and another female victim were held captive by the pair in two Southern California motels, where they were physically abused by Jackson and Fox who forced to perform sex acts in exchange for money.
The women were forced to give the money they were paid to Jackson. Fox and Jackson held the two victims captive under a motel mattress when they were not performing sex acts. Jackson also raped one of the women and sexually assaulted both of them.
On November 4, 2020, the two women ran from the motel room when Fox and Jackson got into a physical fight and one of the women called police.
Jackson was convicted by a jury Thursday of two felony counts of human trafficking, two felony counts of pimping, two felony counts of pandering, three felony counts of forcible oral copulation, one felony count of assault with a firearm, one felony count of kidnapping, two felony counts of forcible rape, and one felony count of sexual penetration by a foreign object in concert.
Fox was convicted by a jury Thursday of two felony counts of human trafficking, two felony counts of pimping, two felony counts of pandering, one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon, one felony count of forcible oral copulation, and one felony count of sexual penetration with a foreign object in concert.
Jackson faces a maximum sentence of 147 years and 4 months to life in State Prison. Fox faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in State Prison.
They are scheduled to be sentenced on October 1, 2021 at the Central Justice Center in Department C36.
“These women were held against their will and subjected to a living hell while being degraded and sexually and physically abused,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These are vulnerable victims who when they saw their chance to escape, they ran for safety. Thank you to the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force and the Anaheim Police Department for rescuing these women from their abusers and helping to hold these monsters accountable for their actions.”
Deputy District Attorney Kelcie Wiemann of the Human Exploitation and Trafficking Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Anthony Larue Jackson
Human Trafficking
Kidnapping
Marquesah Troycine Fox
Pimping
Rape
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Long Beach Man with Prior Kidnapping Conviction Charged with Multiple Human Trafficking Felonies After Tip Leads Human Trafficking Task Force to Rescue 17-year-old Victim at Anaheim Motel
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
