CONVICTION UPHELD FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER SERVING LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES MURDER OF 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN THE COURSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
CONVICTION UPHELD FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER SERVING LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES MURDER OF 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN THE COURSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 29, 2017
Home
Press
CONVICTION UPHELD FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER SERVING LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES MURDER OF 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN THE COURSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
Case # 13ZF0161
Date: August 29, 2017
CONVICTION UPHELD FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER SERVING LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES MURDER OF 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN THE COURSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
*Opinion establishes first degree felony murder rule can be applied to a defendant when a victim dies as a result of the defendant’s inaction
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The California Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate District, Division Three, affirmed a judgment today of the Superior Court of Orange County by the Honorable Steven D. Bromberg for the special circumstances murder conviction of a man who killed a 29-year-old woman in the course of sexually assaulting her in a Stanton motel room. Charles Patrick Drew, 67, was found guilty by a jury on Sept. 15, 2015,of one felony count of special circumstances murder in the commission of rape, sodomy, oral copulation, and sexual penetration by foreign object, one felony count each of rape of an unconscious person, sodomy of unconscious victim, oral copulation of unconscious person, sexual penetration by foreign object of unconscious victim, and aggravated assault. The defendant’s two prior strike convictions for forcible rape and assault with a deadly weapon in Orange County in 1995 were found to be true. He was sentenced to life in state prison without the possibility of parole on Oct. 23, 2015.
In publishing this opinion, the Court of Appeal established for the first time in California that the felony murder rule can be based on a defendant failing to perform a certain act, and not just based on doing a specific act. The opinion stated in part, “Appellant is correct that the precedential landscape here is not lush … We see no reason in law or logic why the felony murder rule, when otherwise applicable, cannot be applied when the victim dies as a result of inaction by defendant.”
“This decision is a great victory for crime victims and prosecutors throughout the state,” stated District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “This victim suffered terribly at the defendant’s hands. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is proud to establish the precedent of holding a defendant accountable for first degree murder based on failure to seek medical assistance for the victim when there is a duty to do so.”
Circumstances of the Case
Sometime between March 17, 2012, and March 18, 2012, Drew stayed in a rented motel room at Motel 6 in Stanton with 29-year-old Amber Oceja, under the guise that he was the victim’s care-taker.
During that time, Drew brutally sexually assaulted the victim while she was unconscious in a diabetic coma, including rape, sodomy, and oral copulation.
Drew also used a razor blade to mutilate several parts of the victim’s body.
Drew then attempted to clean the scene of the crime and dispose of the materials that he had used to clean the room.
On March 19, 2012, Drew walked outside of his motel room and asked someone to call 911 because the victim was unresponsive.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department responded to the scene and investigated this case.
The Coroner’s office determined that the victim died due to natural cases (diabetic ketoacidosis) within two hours of the sexual assault.
This case was prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney Ebrahim Baytieh. The California Attorney General’s Office handled the appeal for this case.
To read the court’s opinion, please visit:
https://www.courts.ca.gov/opinions/documents/G052949.PDF
Excerpts from the Opinion
“Indeed, it appears she would have died when she did even if appellant had not sexually assaulted her. However, appellant did not just sexually assault Oceja while she was unconscious, he failed to seek medical assistance for her knowing she was in dire physical condition – a fact which would remain hidden as long as she was confined in his motel room.”
“Instead of trying to help Oceja, appellant sexually assaulted her in a brutal manner.”
“At trial, the prosecutor acknowledged Oceja died from natural causes, i.e., her diabetes. However, he put forth two theories as to why appellant was legally responsible for her death and should be convicted of murder. Both theories were premised, at least in part, on appellant’s failure to seek medical assistance for Oceja once she became incapacitated due to lack of insulin.”
“Appellant argues there is insufficient evidence to support the jury’s verdict of first degree felony murder. In his view, the evidence comes up short in terms of proving a sufficient causal relationship between his sex crimes and Oceja’s death. We disagree.”
“However, appellant did not just sexually assault Oceja while she was unconscious. After the assault, he also kept her secluded in their motel room and deliberately refrained from calling 911 for fear the police would question him about Oceja’s injuries.”
“Given Oceja’s severely asthenic condition, appellant’s failure to act was legally indistinguishable from locking her in a room until she starved or stuffing her in a freezer until she froze to death.”
“… the prosecutor also relied on appellant’s failure to seek medical assistance for Oceja in arguing he was guilty of first degree felony murder. Over and over during his summation to the jury, the prosecutor identified appellant’s failure to pick up the phone and call 911 for help as a factual predicate underlying the state’s felony murder theory.”
“Appellant is correct that the precedential landscape here is not lush.”
“We see no reason in law or logic why the felony murder rule, when otherwise applicable, cannot be applied when the victim dies as a result of inaction by defendant.”
Tagged with:
Charles Patrick Drew
Rape
Sex Offender
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
