San Clemente Man Found Guilty of Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
San Clemente Man Found Guilty of Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 23, 2019
Home
Press
San Clemente Man Found Guilty of Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
Case # 16WF1821
San Clemente Man Found Guilty of Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old Girl While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A jury today found Adam John Kanas, 39, of San Clemente, guilty of second degree murder for killing 10-year old Kendra Geddis in 2016 after swerving across several lanes on the I-405 in Seal Beach and slamming into the back of the Tesla Geddis was riding in, killing Geddis and seriously injuring her 13-year-old sister and father. Kanas was driving while under the influence of central nervous system depressants at the time.
Kanas was also convicted of two counts of driving under the influence of drugs causing great injury and two enhancements for inflicting great bodily injury. He will be sentenced on January 10, 2020. He faces 41 years to life in state prison.
On August 15, 2016 at approximately 9:20 a.m., Kanas was driving his 2013 Chevy Tahoe erratically at speeds of nearly 80 mph. He swerved across multiple lanes and the double yellow line into the carpool lane on northbound I-405 near the Seal Beach Boulevard Exit.
Donald Geddis was driving his Tesla with his two daughters asleep in the back seat, 10-year-old Kendra and 13-year-old Kayla. Geddis was slowing for traffic while driving in the carpool lane when Kanas slammed into the rear of the Tesla at approximately 68 miles per hour, sending the Tesla into a Honda Civic.
Kendra died as a result of the impact. Her sister and father were seriously injured. Kanas was treated at the scene for minor injuries.
Kanas has a prior conviction for driving under the influence and a prior-strike conviction for first-degree burglary in Los Angeles County.
“Choosing to get behind the wheel after you have been drinking or using drugs is a choice that can have deadly consequences. That decision cost a 10-year-old girl her life – and cost her family a lifetime of memories with their little girl,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Drugged driving is up more than 120 percent in Orange County over the last five years and it has to stop.”
Deputy District Attorney Daniel Feldman prosecuted the case.
Tagged with:
Adam John Kanas
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Drugs
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
