“Mummy Bandit” Sentenced to 19 Years for Robbing Bank at Gunpoint - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
“Mummy Bandit” Sentenced to 19 Years for Robbing Bank at Gunpoint
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 17, 2020
Home
Press
“Mummy Bandit” Sentenced to 19 Years for Robbing Bank at Gunpoint
Case #08HF1601
Santa Ana Man was previously convicted of six other bank robberies
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A serial bank robber who disguised himself like a mummy to hold up a Newport Beach Wells Fargo at gunpoint was sentenced January 16, 2020 to 19 years in state prison.
Jaime Reyes Torres, 58, of Santa Ana, dubbed the “Mummy Bandit,” was convicted of five felony counts of robbery and one felony count of a felon in possession of a firearm.  Torres had been previously convicted of six other bank robberies between 1991 and 1992 using a similar disguise of a baseball cap and cloth wrapped around his face like a mummy. He was sentenced to 135 months in state prison.
On May 24, 2008, Torres walked into a Newport Beach Wells Fargo wearing a baseball cap and cloth wrapped around his face like a mummy. He used a handgun to rob four bank tellers and a bank manager of more than $50,000 in cash.   As he fled the bank, his baseball cap fell off.  DNA evidence from the cap was subsequently linked to Torres.
Prosecutors had asked for a 45 years to life sentence under California’s Three Strikes law.  Torres had been convicted of six prior strikes resulting in a potential of 25 years to life, plus an additional 10 years for each of his two five year priors on his record.  He also used a firearm during the commission of the crime that could potentially add an additional ten more years to his sentence.  Orange County Superior Court Judge James E. Rogan struck Torres’ prior strikes over the objection of prosecutors.
“This serial bank robber is once again behind bars as a result of DNA and he will stay there for a significant amount of time,” said District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Assistant Deputy District Attorney Christopher Duff prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Bank Robbery
Firearm
Jaime Reyes Torres
Wells Fargo
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Huntington Beach Personal Trainer Sentenced to Two Consecutive Life Sentences Without the Possibility of Parole plus 54 years to Life for Executing Man and Woman in Newport Beach Condo Defendant was targeting male rivals he thought were having romantic relationships with his ex-girlfriend; defense argued woman was killed because defendant mistakenly believed a blonde woman was his girlfriend in bed with another man
Press
Huntington Beach Personal Trainer Convicted of  Two Counts of First-degree Murder for Shooting Man, Woman in Head in Newport Beach Condo Defendant was targeting male rivals he thought were having romantic relationships with his ex-girlfriend; defense argued woman was killed because defendant mistakenly believed a blonde woman was his girlfriend in bed with another man
Press
Four Counts of Murder, Three Counts of Attempted Murder Filed Against Man Accused in Mass Shooting in Orange
