Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Identifying Additional Victims of Registered Sex Offender - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Identifying Additional Victims of Registered Sex Offender
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 20, 2020
Home
Press
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Identifying Additional Victims of Registered Sex Offender
Case # 20CF1045
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Identifying Additional Victims of Registered Sex Offender Charged with Committing Lewd Acts on Teenage Boy
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims of a registered sex offender currently facing multiple felonies for committing lewd acts on a teenage boy.
Patrick Michael Costello, 56, of Orange, was convicted in 2014 of sending inappropriate text messages to another teenage boy. That conviction requires that he register as a sex offender.
On February 6, 2020, Santa Ana Police arrested Costello on suspicion of offering a teenage boy money in exchange for sex acts.
Costello is currently charged with ten felony counts, including six felony counts of lewd act on a child 14 or 15 years old, three felony counts of annoying or molesting a child under the age of 18 with a prior conviction, and one felony count of oral copulation of a person under the age of 18.
He faces a maximum sentence of 9 years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Costello is currently out on bail. He is scheduled to appear for a pre-trial hearing on August 18, 2020 in Department C57 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
According to Costello’s LinkedIn profile, he is the founder and director of Synergy Drum Corps, which is a private drum school with no affiliation to the Santa Ana Unified School District.
Anyone with additional information regarding additional potential victims is asked to contact Santa Ana Police Detective Gerry Corona at 714-245-8343,
gcorona@santa-ana.org
or Orange County Crime Stoppers at 1-855-TIP-OCCS.
Deputy District Attorney Don Marc Dimaranan is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Child Annoyance
Child Molestation
child predator
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Patrick Michael Costello
Sex Offender
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Department of Homeland Security Employee Charged with Molesting Young Girls
