Third Striker Charged with Murder, Five Counts of Attempted Murder in Thanksgiving Road Rage Shooting; Defendant’s 3-year-old son, girlfriend were in the truck while he chased victims following collision - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Third Striker Charged with Murder, Five Counts of Attempted Murder in Thanksgiving Road Rage Shooting; Defendant’s 3-year-old son, girlfriend were in the truck while he chased victims following collision
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
December 1, 2022
Home
Press
Third Striker Charged with Murder, Five Counts of Attempted Murder in Thanksgiving Road Rage Shooting; Defendant’s 3-year-old son, girlfriend were in the truck while he chased victims following collision
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 1, 2022
Case #: 22WF3313
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Relations
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Third Striker Charged with Murder, Five Counts of
Attempted Murder in Thanksgiving Road Rage Shooting
Defendant’s 3-year-old son, girlfriend were in the truck
while he chased victims following collision
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A third striker has been charged with murder and five felony counts of attempted murder after he shot repeatedly into a truck during a road rage incident on Thanksgiving evening with his three-year-old son and his girlfriend in his truck.
Lucas Rivera-Velasco, 30, of Costa Mesa, died in the attack.
Lee Quevon Walker, 41, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of murder, five felony counts of attempted murder, four felony enhancements of inflicting great bodily injury, four felony enhancements of discharge of a firearm, one felony enhancement of discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury or death, and one felony enhancement of personal use of a firearm.
He faces a maximum sentence 90 years to life and is three strikes eligible if convicted on all counts.
Walker is currently being held without bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on December 14, 2022 at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W12.
On November 24, 2022, Rivera-Velasco was driving home from a Costa Mesa restaurant with five other people in a truck when the truck hit Walker’s truck, causing damage to the vehicle. Walker was driving the truck and his three-year-old son and girlfriend were in the vehicle.
At red light, Walker is accused of getting out of his truck and approaching the driver’s window, but the driver drove away.
Walker is accused of getting back in his truck and following the victims. When the driver pulled over in the 400 block of West Bay Street, Walker is accused of exiting his truck and approaching the victims’ truck before shooting multiple times into the occupied truck and driving away.
Rivera-Velasco was killed and all five others in the truck were injured in the shooting. The injured victims ranged in age from 18 to 38 years old.
Walker later turned himself into Costa Mesa police.
“This senseless act of violence instantly devastated so many lives, including a three-year-old child who had to witness a frightening amount of violence committed by his own father,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is unconscionable to think that a traffic collision could result in the death of a man and the attempted murder of five people. Life is too precious to waste over something as trivial as a traffic collision.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Lee Quevon Walker
Lucas Rivera-Velasco
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 9 =
