21-Year-Old Man who Fled to Vietnam after Conspiring to Carry Out Brazen Broad Daylight Drive-by on Rival Gang Members that Left 15-year-old Dead, and 13-year-old Wounded, was brought back to U.S. to Face Murder Charges Two co-conspirators are being held at the Orange County Jail on murder charges; a fourth co-conspirator is believed to have fled to Jordan after the murder. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
10 min read
21-Year-Old Man who Fled to Vietnam after Conspiring to Carry Out Brazen Broad Daylight Drive-by on Rival Gang Members that Left 15-year-old Dead, and 13-year-old Wounded, was brought back to U.S. to Face Murder Charges Two co-conspirators are being held at the Orange County Jail on murder charges; a fourth co-conspirator is believed to have fled to Jordan after the murder.
Author
Justin Yun
Published
January 26, 2026
Home
Press
21-Year-Old Man who Fled to Vietnam after Conspiring to Carry Out Brazen Broad Daylight Drive-by on Rival Gang Members that Left 15-year-old Dead, and 13-year-old Wounded, was brought back to U.S. to Face Murder Charges Two co-conspirators are being held at the Orange County Jail on murder charges; a fourth co-conspirator is believed to have fled to Jordan after the murder.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 26, 2026
Case #: 25WF3000
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Ali Ibrahim Alsouqi
Quoc-Bao Le
21-Year-Old Man who Fled to Vietnam after Conspiring to Carry Out Brazen Broad Daylight Drive-by on Rival Gang Members that Left 15-year-old Dead, and 13-year-old Wounded, was brought back to U.S. to Face Murder Charges
Two co-conspirators are being held at the Orange County Jail on murder charges;
a fourth co-conspirator is believed to have fled to Jordan after the murder
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A man who fled to Vietnam after he conspired to carry out a brazen broad daylight drive-by shooting targeting rival gang members that left a 15-year-old boy dead and critically wounded a 13-year-old last summer has been returned to the United States to face murder and conspiracy to commit murder charges.
Since October 2025, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), along with assistance from the Orange County Sheriff’s Department and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office Organized Crime Unit, has been leading the international manhunt for 21-year-old Quoc-Bao Viet Le, accused of being one of five co-conspirators and one of two shooters in the attack that left 15-year-old Samuel Vidal dead, along with 20-year-old co-conspirator Ali Ibrahim Alsouqi. Ali Ibrahim Alsouqi is believed to be in Jordan.
With the assistance of its counterparts in Vietnam, the FBI confirmed Le had entered Vietnam four days after the July 5, 2025, murder. At the request of the FBI, Vietnamese authorities arrested Le and expulsion proceedings were initiated through the collaborative efforts of the FBI, Vietnamese Officers from the Ministry of Security, and officials from the Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
On January 21, 2026, Le was flown back to the United States and booked into the Orange County Jail through the joint efforts of the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, the FBI’s San Francisco Office, an FBI Task Force Officer from the Anaheim Police Department, Custom and Border Protection, and the Transportation Security Administration.
Le has been charged with one felony count of murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of conspiracy to commit murder, and one felony count of shooting into an inhabited dwelling. He has also been charged with two felony enhancements of discharging a firearm causing great bodily injury or death, two felony enhancements for knowing another principal was personally armed with a firearm, and one felony enhancement of personal use of a firearm.
Le faces a maximum sentence of 50 years to life if convicted on all counts. Le is charged with being one of four co-conspirators in the July 5, 2025, murder of 15-year-old Samuel Vidal and the wounding of Vidal’s 13-year-old friend.
Two other defendants – accused shooter 24-year-old Danny Huynh and accused getaway driver 21-year-old Troy Quang Lu – have been charged with multiple felonies including murder and attempted murder and are currently being held in the Orange County jail. One of the remaining fugitives in the conspiracy to commit murder is believed to have fled to Jordan, and a fifth man has not yet been identified.
“Fleeing the country after allegedly committing murder will not protect you from U.S. law enforcement,” said Akil Davis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office.  “The FBI has offices throughout the world and liaisons with our international partners to pursue fugitives wherever they may hide.”
“We will go to the absolute ends of the earth in the pursuit of justice,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This cold-blooded murder of a young man was planned, it was executed, and they tried as best they could to cover their tracks just as they covered their faces and the license plate of their getaway car. I am incredibly grateful for the unrelenting dedication of my investigators and prosecutors along with our partners at the Sheriff’s Department, the FBI, and our international counterparts for helping bring this murderer back to Orange County to face the full consequences of the law and we will not rest until the last person responsible is back on U.S. soil.”
On July 5, 2025, 20-year-old old Ali Ibrahim Alsouqi arranged for four other men to come to his Garden Grove home where they planned a shooting targeting rival gang members. Twenty-year-old Le is accused of meeting 23-year-old Danny Huynh and 20-year-old Troy Quang Lu and a fourth unidentified man at Alsouqi’s home. All five men are accused of getting into Lu’s black Mercedes Benz and Lu is accused of obscuring the vehicle’s license plate of his vehicle before driving to the city of Stanton to carry out the plan.
Shortly before 2 p.m., Vidal and his 13-year-old friend were confronted by a group of masked men in a black Mercedes Benz in 11000 block of Court Street in Stanton, including a man later identified as Huynh, who got out of the car and began shooting at the teenage boys. The passenger in the front seat, later identified as Le, is accused of shooting out of the vehicle.
Vidal was shot five times, with bullets piercing his heart, lung, liver, and pancreas, and he died at the scene. The 13-year-old was shot in the chest but survived.
Lu was arrested hours later. Investigators later identified Huynh, Le, and Alsouqi as the other occupants of the black Mercedes Benz during the shooting, and arrested Huynh.  Le fled to Vietnam and Alsouqi is believed to have fled to Jordan, where authorities are actively searching for him.
Lu has been charged with one felony count of murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of conspiracy to commit murder, and one felony count of shooting into an inhabited dwelling.
Lu faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted on all counts.
Huynh has been charged with one felony count of murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of conspiracy to commit murder, and one felony count of shooting into an inhabited dwelling, and one felony count of being a felon in possession of a firearm. He has also been charged with two felony enhancements of discharging a firearm causing great bodily injury or death, two felony enhancements for knowing another principal was personally armed with a firearm, and one felony enhancement of personal use of a firearm.
Huynh faces a maximum sentence of 50 years to life if convicted on all counts.
Alsouqi has been charged with one felony count of conspiracy to commit murder. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted.
Deputy District Attorney Kara Thompson of the Gangs/TARGET Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Ali Ibrahim Alsouqi
Gangs/TARGET Unit
Quoc-Bao Le
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
