Aliso Viejo Man Charged with Special Circumstance Murder for Ambushing Childhood Friend Who Worked as UPS Driver in Irvine - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Aliso Viejo Man Charged with Special Circumstance Murder for Ambushing Childhood Friend Who Worked as UPS Driver in Irvine
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
May 21, 2024
Home
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Charged with Special Circumstance Murder for Ambushing Childhood Friend Who Worked as UPS Driver in Irvine
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 21, 2024
Case #: 24CF1302
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Aliso Viejo Man Charged with Special Circumstance Murder
for Ambushing Longtime Friend Who Worked as UPS Driver in Irvine
Defendant is eligible for death penalty if convicted
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 46-year-old UPS employee who was on work disability has been charged with the special circumstance murder for executing his longtime  friend and coworker after tracking him down on his delivery route and shooting at him 14 times, hitting him 10 times, in a matter of seconds as he sat seat belted in his delivery truck in Irvine last week.  Authorities are still working to uncover the motive of what led to the execution of a longtime friend.
On May 16, 2024, UPS employee Rhean Jalipa Fontanoza, 46, of Aliso Viejo, is accused of stopping a UPS driver around 12:30 p.m. and asking if the route belonged to his childhood friend, 50-year-old UPS delivery driver Expedito De Leon. When the driver told him De Leon had another route, Fontanoza is accused of going to the UPS Aliso Viejo substation where he was seen accessing a computer that shows driver routes and taking a picture with his phone. Fontanoza had been on disability leave but was scheduled to return to work on June 1, 2024.
Just before 3 p.m., Fontanoza is accused of tracking De Leon down on his route and driving past him in a new vehicle which De Leon wouldn’t recognize. De Leon then left his truck to make a delivery and returned to his truck, and buckled his seatbelt. He still had his UPS scanner in his hand and his seatbelt buckled when Fontanoza drove next to De Leon’s delivery truck and shot at him 14 times in 19 seconds.
Fontanoza is currently being held on no bail. He is eligible for the death penalty if convicted.
Fontanoza drove away after the shooting and was later found by police in his vehicle on Santiago Canyon Road in Orange later that afternoon. Fontanoza refused to exit his vehicle but was arrested after police deployed a police K9 and tear gas into the vehicle.
“Mr. De Leon was just going about his day, doing his job with no idea his longtime friend was stalking him with every intent to kill him,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The depravity involved to plot and carry out a plan to execute someone you shared a lifetime of memories is not something anyone of us can wrap our heads around. No life should have to end like this and it is a tragedy that should have never happened.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Lexie Elliott of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Rhean Jalipa Fontanoza
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 3 =
