Son of Man Who Posed as Home Security Company Employee to Steal Jewelry, Credit Cards from Elderly Victims also Charged in Theft - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Son of Man Who Posed as Home Security Company Employee to Steal Jewelry, Credit Cards from Elderly Victims also Charged in Theft
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
February 23, 2024
Home
Press
Son of Man Who Posed as Home Security Company Employee to Steal Jewelry, Credit Cards from Elderly Victims also Charged in Theft
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 23, 2024
Case #: 24NF0119, 24NF0450
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Son of Man Who Posed as Home Security Company Employee
to Steal Jewelry, Credit Cards from Elderly Victims also Charged in Theft
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The son of a man who impersonated a home security company employee to trick elderly victims into letting him inside their homes in order to steal jewelry, cash, and credit cards has been charged in helping his father carry out one of the burglaries.
The victims ranged in age from 79 to 88 years old, including one woman who was legally blind.
Authorities believe there are additional victims in Orange, Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino counties. If you believe you may be a victim, call the Anaheim Police Department at (714) 328-8153 or Orange County Crime Stoppers at (855) TIP-OCCS.
Jacinto Chavez, 37, was charged last month with five felony counts of first-degree burglary and two felony counts of theft from an elder adult exceeding $950, and three misdemeanor counts of elder theft. He faces a maximum sentence of 11 years and four months in state prison if convicted of all charges.
Chavez’ son, Jeramiah, 19, has since been charged with one felony count of first-degree burglary and one felony count of theft from an elder. He faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison if convicted of both counts.
Father and son have pleaded not guilty to the charges and are scheduled to return to court for a pretrial hearing on April 9 in Department N3 of the North Justice Center.
Over a four-month period, between August and November 2023, Jacinto Chavez is accused of targeting elderly residents in Anaheim who displayed home security signs outside their homes. He is accused of wearing a badge that identified him as a Brinks home security employee.
After gaining the victims’ trust, Jacinto Chavez is accused of stealing jewelry, credit cards and credit card information. On at least one occasion, his son Jeremiah Chavez is accused of joining him to steal from an elderly woman in Anaheim.
“These victims subscribed to a home security company to protect themselves from crime. And instead of preventing them from becoming victims, that security system is what Chavez and his son used to target them – and steal their precious jewelry, credit cards, and cash – all while pretending to be someone who is helping to keep them safe,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “There are few things more despicable than someone who is willing to lie right to an elderly person’s face and rob them with a smile on their face.”
Deputy District Attorney Gerard Gully of the Gangs/Target Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
jacinto chavez
Jeramiah Chavez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 9 =
