OCDA Todd Spitzer Joins 43 Elected District Attorneys in Lawsuit Challenging Early Release of 76,000 State Prison Inmates - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
OCDA Todd Spitzer Joins 43 Elected District Attorneys in Lawsuit Challenging Early Release of 76,000 State Prison Inmates
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 26, 2021
Home
Press
OCDA Todd Spitzer Joins 43 Elected District Attorneys in Lawsuit Challenging Early Release of 76,000 State Prison Inmates
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 26, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer
Joins 43 Elected District Attorneys in Filing Lawsuit Challenging
Early Release of 76,000 State Prison Inmates
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer joined 43 elected District Attorneys across California today in filing a civil lawsuit to invalidate emergency regulations adopted by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation to increase “good time credits” that would allow nearly 76,000 state prisoners, including murderers and other violent offenders, to be released early.
The additional credits were the product of “emergency” regulations which were passed and first made public on Friday April 30, 2021, at 3:00 p.m. In adopting these regulations, and claiming an emergency, the CDCR Secretary stated these regulations were necessary to comply with “the direction outlined in the Governor’s Budget Summary” presented a year ago on May 14, 2020. By invoking an emergency, the traditional regulatory scheme and transparent public comment period was bypassed.
This lawsuit, filed in Sacramento Superior Court, is asking the Court to declare the regulations unlawful and to prohibit CDCR from awarding these additional credits until CDCR lawfully complies with the regulatory scheme, which would include a transparent and rigorous public comment period.
“As the former chairman of the state Assembly committee overseeing our prisons, I have seen this song and dance many times before. This nothing more than a continuing agenda to close California’s prisons and release dangerous criminals back into our communities,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is my job as District Attorney to keep Orange County safe. The public must be given the opportunity to question why the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation would decide that returning murderers, child molesters, and rapists back into our neighborhoods more quickly somehow constitutes an emergency. It is unconscionable that these regulations were adopted without concern for the victims who have suffered at the hands of violent offenders or concern for public safety.”
Read the lawsuit
here
.
###
Tagged with:
Early Release
Media Advisory
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
