MAN TO FACE TRIAL FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING THREE WOMEN IN PARKING LOTS - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
MAN TO FACE TRIAL FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING THREE WOMEN IN PARKING LOTS
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 23, 2017
Home
Press
MAN TO FACE TRIAL FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING THREE WOMEN IN PARKING LOTS
Case # 13CF3891
Date: May 23, 2017
MAN TO FACE TRIAL FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING THREE WOMEN IN PARKING LOTS
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man is scheduled to face trial tomorrow for sexually assaulting three women in mall, fast food, and church parking lots.
Defendant
Felony Charges
Maximum Sentence
Court Date
Raymond Martin Boykin, 21, Anaheim
(3) Forcible oral copulation
Kidnapping to commit sex offense
Assault with intent to commit a sexual offense
Second degree robbery
Unlawful taking of a vehicle
Evading while driving recklessly
Sentencing Enhancements
Personal use of a deadly weapon
Multiple victims
60 years to life in state prison
Jury trial opening statements
May 24, 2017, 8:45 a.m.
Department W-13, West Justice Center, Westminster
Circumstances of the Case
At approximately 3:00 a.m. on Dec. 7, 2013, Boykin is accused of kidnapping Jane Doe 3 as she walked down Chapman Avenue in Orange by pulling her into a Weinerschnitzel parking lot.
The defendant is accused of stealing the victim’s phone before fleeing the scene.
Jane Doe 3 reported the crime to Orange Police Department, who investigated and collected forensic evidence.
At approximately 5:15 p.m. on Dec. 11, 2013, Boykin is accused of approaching 19-year-old Jane Doe 1 in a parking structure at Main Place Mall in Santa Ana.
The defendant is accused of forcing his way into the victim’s car, assaulting the victim with a weapon, sexually assaulting her, and stealing her purse, then fleeing the scene.
The case was reported to and investigated by the Santa Ana Police Department.
At approximately 6:15 a.m. on Dec. 13, 2013, Boykin is accused of approaching 42-year-old Jane Doe 2 in the parking lot of Sa Rang Community Church in Anaheim.
The defendant is accused of forcing his way into her car, assaulting the victim with a weapon, and sexually assaulting her, then stealing Jane Doe 2’s car and fleeing the scene.
The case was reported to and investigated by the Anaheim Police Department (APD).
At approximately 10:30 a.m. on Dec. 13, 2013, Boykin is accused of being observed by an APD officer driving in the stolen vehicle.
The defendant is accused of leading officers in a pursuit before crashing into another vehicle and fleeing on foot.
Boykin is accused of hiding in a nearby apartment, where he was located by police canines and arrested.
The defendant is accused of being linked to Jane Doe 3 through forensic evidence after his arrest.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Whitney Bokosky of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Raymond Martin Boykin
Robbery
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
