Third-striker Gang Member Found Guilty of Murder of Innocent Father of Three on Father’s Day Gang member was on parole when he shot and killed food truck operator in botched attempt to shoot rival gang member in Santa Ana. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Third-striker Gang Member Found Guilty of Murder of Innocent Father of Three on Father’s Day  Gang member was on parole when he shot and killed food truck operator in botched attempt to shoot rival gang member in Santa Ana.
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
March 21, 2022
Home
Press
Third-striker Gang Member Found Guilty of Murder of Innocent Father of Three on Father’s Day  Gang member was on parole when he shot and killed food truck operator in botched attempt to shoot rival gang member in Santa Ana.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  March 21, 2022
Case # 16CF1629
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A third-striker gang member parolee was found guilty today of the special circumstances murder of an innocent father of three on Father’s Day in a failed attack on a rival gang member.
Jose De Jesus Gomez-Ochoa, 36, Tustin, was charged with one felony count of special circumstances murder for criminal street gang purpose, one felony count of unlawful possession of a firearm, and sentencing enhancements for the personal discharge of a firearm causing death, criminal street gang activity, the personal use of a firearm. He has prior strike convictions for participation in a criminal street gang in 2011 and 2012, and criminal street gang member in possession of a firearm in 2012.
A jury found Gomez-Ochoa guilty today on all counts
He will be sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. His sentencing is scheduled for July 15, 2022.
“Criminal street gangs continue to force hardworking, honest people to live in fear,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “A father should have spent his evening with his three children celebrating Father’s Day, but instead his children had to learn that their father had been shot to death because he ended up in between two rival gang members. An innocent man is dead, and he shouldn’t be. I have and will continue to charge gang enhancements and firearms enhancements to send a strong message to gang members that violence won’t be tolerated and an even stronger message to the hardworking families who have to live in gang neighborhoods: We are doing whatever we can to protect you and your loved ones.”
Gomez-Ochoa was a parolee and was being a member of a criminal street gang at the time of the murder when he shot and killed 52-year-old Eliu Armando Gramajo who was working at his food truck.
On June 19, 2016, at approximately 7:10 p.m., Gomez-Ochoa was in the 1700 block of South Evergreen Street in Santa Ana. A rival criminal street gang member was buying something from a parked food truck, which belonged to Gramajo. Gomez-Ochoa saw the rival gang member from a distance and fired his gun five times at that rival gang member. The shot missed his intended target and instead hit Gramajo, an innocent bystander and husband and father of three. Gomez-Ochoa fled the scene.
Gramajo, who was shot in the upper chest, died at the hospital.
The Santa Ana Police Department investigated arrested Gomez-Ochoa at his home the day after the shooting.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Janine Madera of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Eliu Armando Gramajo
Gang Shooting
Jose De Jesus Gomez-Ochoa
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
