Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
May 25, 2022
Home
Press
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  May 25, 2022
Case #22CF1232
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A 26-year-old felon has been charged with seven felony counts of premeditated attempted murder in connection with driving his car onto a Santa Ana sidewalk and hitting several young children walking to elementary school with their grandparents Monday morning, including a 6-year-old girl who was hit the day before her 7
th
birthday.
Jason Carlos Guzman, 26, of Valencia has been charged with seven felony counts of premeditated attempted murder, seven felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon, three felony counts of hit and run with injury, and three felony counts of child abuse. He has also been charged with one felony count of possession of a flammable liquid, one misdemeanor count of brandishing a deadly weapon, and one misdemeanor count of hit and run with property damage.
Guzman was convicted in 2017 for committing felony assault by using force that is likely to commit great bodily injury.
He faces a maximum sentence of 49 years to life plus six years in state prison plus one year in Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts.
On Monday, May 23, 2022, around 8 a.m. a man later identified as Jason Guzman told a staff member at Taft Elementary School on Keller Avenue in Santa Ana that he was going to use the bathroom at the school. She then tells him he needs to leave, which he does.
He is accused of crashing into a parking barrier in the school’s parking lot while leaving in a Red Mazda Protégé. Guzman is accused of then accelerating onto a sidewalk and crashing into a group of Taft Elementary School children walking to school on the sidewalk along Keller Avenue. Three of the children – an 11-year-old girl, a 9-yaer-old girl, and a 6 –year-old girl flew into the air after being hit by the vehicle.
While fleeing the accident, Guzman is accused of hitting an SUV occupied by a woman and her 11-year-old daughter.
Another mother who followed Guzman from the school and witnessed him hitting the children on the sidewalk got out to confront Guzman. Guzman is accused of brandishing a knife at her, but the woman runs back to her vehicle and is not hurt.
Police found Guzman bleeding from an apparent self-inflicted stab wound to his abdomen. He remains hospitalized. The Orange County Sheriff’s Department Bomb Squad later located several containers of flammable liquid in Guzman’s car.
“We are thankful for all law enforcement agencies who responded to ensure everyone at the campus remained safe,” said Santa Ana Unified School District Superintendent Jerry Almendarez. “Our School District is continuing this week to have crisis counselors at Taft Elementary to support the social and emotional needs of our students and staff following this traumatic event.”
“The actions of a single individual have resulted in undue trauma to the victims he hit as well as countless children, parents, and school staff,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These children were innocently walking to school on the sidewalk with their grandparents and but for the grace of God, this incident did not result in a child being more seriously injured or killed. Children are the most vulnerable victims, and I will do everything in my power to protect our children whether they are at school, at church, and at home.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Ann Fawaz of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Assault
Hit and Run
Jason Carlos Guzman
Premeditated Attempted Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Murder in Street Racing Crash that Killed Innocent Driver
