Statement by OCDA Tony Rackauckas: Grand Jury Indictments on Jail Death - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Custodial Death Reports
Press
8 min read
Statement by OCDA Tony Rackauckas:  Grand Jury Indictments on Jail Death
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 1, 2008
Home
Reports
Custodial Death Reports
Statement by OCDA Tony Rackauckas:  Grand Jury Indictments on Jail Death
Statements by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
Grand Jury Indictment
March 7, 2008
Thank you for coming.
I am here to talk about the unsealing of the grand jury indictment against three
former inmates in the beating murder of their fellow inmate, John Chamberlain.
This indictment concludes the criminal portion of the investigation into Mr. Chamberlain’s death.
Nine former inmates, in total now, face murder charges.
There will be no other criminal indictments at this time based on this investigation.
Their trial is currently scheduled to begin on June 13.
As many of you know, I requested a Special Criminal
Grand Jury be empaneled on May 17, 2007.
The purpose of this grand jury was to investigate whether any Orange County Sheriff personnel were criminally liable for their failure to properly perform their assigned duties, as well as whether there were additional inmates responsible for the murder.
We conducted a thorough investigation into all of
the circumstances surrounding the
homicide.
The answers I was seeking were:
whether there was a failure of duty or malfeasance by any Sheriff’s jail personnel;
whether any Sheriff personnel aided and abetted the murder of Chamberlain or was criminally liable in his death;
whether there was a violation of existing investigative protocol;
identify other inmate assailants;
and any other facts involving the investigation into the Chamberlain matter.
During the nine months of service by the
Special Grand Jury, 79 witnesses were called including 42 Sheriff’s personnel and five retired Sheriff’s officials
, including former Sheriffs Michael Carona and Brad Gates.
Some have suggested that based on the press accounts and rumors about the failure of Sheriff’s personnel to perform their duties, the grand jury should have issued indictments against them.
As you know, in order to charge anyone with a crime, we must prove beyond a reasonable doubt all of the elements of the offense.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
