Registered Sex Offender Charged with Sexually Assaulting Mother Walking with Her 5-year-old, Baby, Chasing Two Teenage Girls with His Penis Exposed in Two Separate Attacks in an Hour - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Sexually Assaulting Mother Walking with Her 5-year-old, Baby, Chasing Two Teenage Girls with His Penis Exposed in Two Separate Attacks in an Hour
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
June 7, 2024
Home
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Sexually Assaulting Mother Walking with Her 5-year-old, Baby, Chasing Two Teenage Girls with His Penis Exposed in Two Separate Attacks in an Hour
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 7, 2024
Case #: 24CF1486
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Sexually Assaulting Mother
Walking with Her 5-year-old, Baby, Chasing Two Teenage Girls
with His Penis Exposed in Two Separate Attacks in an Hour
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 30-year-old registered sex offender has been charged with sexually assaulting a mother while she was walking with her five-year-old daughter and baby near a Santa Ana market an hour after chasing two teenage girls with his penis exposed.
Moises Hernandez, 30, of Costa Mesa has been charged with one felony count of sexual penetration by force, one felony count of lewd act upon a child, two felony counts of indecent exposure, one misdemeanor count of battery and one misdemeanor count of resisting an officer.
Hernandez faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
On June 4, 2024, two 15-year-old girls were walking in Santa Ana when a man later identified as Hernandez stopped his bike and approached them with his penis protruding from his pants. The girls ran away, but Hernandez chased after them, eventually trying to block the girls from running away by standing in a doorway of a nearby apartment building. He groped one of the girls as she ran away from him.
About an hour later, Hernandez sexually assaulted a 36-year-old woman who was walking with her 5-year-old daughter and her baby stroller near Bristol Street and McFadden Avenue. He also is accused of grabbing the 5-year-old girl by her neck. Hernandez rode off on his bicycle but was later arrested by the Santa Ana Police Department.
Hernandez was previously convicted twice of indecent exposure as well as sexual battery. He is a registered sex offender.
“Sexual predators will never stop preying on vulnerable victims for their own twisted pleasures until they are arrested,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “No mother should have to worry about being sexually assaulted in front of her young children while walking down the street in broad daylight and teenage girls shouldn’t have to run from a registered sex offender exposing his male genitalia as he chases them. Thankfully the Santa Ana Police Department was able to quickly identify and arrest this predator to get him off our streets.”
Deputy District Attorney Austin Neiman of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Moises Hernandez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 4 =
