Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Finding Other Firearm Brandishing Incidents Involving Suspects in 6-year-old’s Murder - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Finding Other Firearm Brandishing Incidents Involving Suspects in 6-year-old’s Murder
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
June 18, 2021
Home
Press
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Finding Other Firearm Brandishing Incidents Involving Suspects in 6-year-old’s Murder
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 18, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the California Highway Patrol are asking the public to come forward with any information regarding additional incidents involving firearms and the two suspects charged in the murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos during a road rage incident on the 55 freeway.
Six-year-old Aiden Leos was in the backseat of his mother’s car on his way to kindergarten in Yorba Linda on May 21, 2021 when he was shot and killed near Chapman Avenue.
Wynne Lee, 23, is accused of being behind the wheel of her white Volkswagen Golf Sportwagen when Marcus Anthony Eriz, 24, shot and killed the Costa Mesa kindergartener during a road rage incident.
Just days after Aiden was shot and killed, Eriz is accused of again brandishing a gun at the driver of a blue Tesla on the 91 freeway near Corona. Lee is accused of again being behind the wheel of her white Volkswagen Golf Sportwagen when Eriz displayed his firearm in the direction of the Tesla driver.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is asking anyone who had any interactions with a 2018/2019 white Volkswagen Golf Sportwagen on the 55 freeway in Orange County or the 91 freeway in Orange and Riverside counties involving shots being fired or a gun being brandished to come forward. The incidents would have occurred between December 2020 and June 2021.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has set up a dedicated hotline for tips at:
714-834-7000
. Information about the suspects and prior firearm brandishing incidents can also be emailed to
tips@da.ocgov.com
.
Eriz, 24, of Costa Mesa has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of shooting into an occupied vehicle, and two felony enhancements of the personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death. He faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Lee, 23, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact and one misdemeanor count of having a concealed firearm in a vehicle. She faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Eriz is currently being held without bail and Lee is currently being held on $500,000 bail. Both pleaded not guilty to all charges today.
Call the Orange County District Attorney’s Office hotline at 714-834-7000 if you have any information regarding prior firearms incidents involving Eriz or Lee. Information about the suspects and prior firearm brandishing incidents can also be emailed to
tips@da.ocgov.com
.
###
Tagged with:
Accessory
Marcus Anthony Eriz
Murder
Shooting
Wynne Lee
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Costa Mesa Woman Pleads Guilty to Being an Accessory after the Fact in Murder of 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Press
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Press
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
