Media Advisory - Defense's demurrer motions overruled in People v. Purdue Pharma et al - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Media Advisory – Defense’s demurrer motions overruled in People v. Purdue Pharma et al
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 15, 2018
Home
Press
Media Advisory – Defense’s demurrer motions overruled in People v. Purdue Pharma et al
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 14, 2018
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO:
The Honorable Kim G. Dunning, Orange County Superior Court
WHAT:
Overruled the defense’s demurrer motions to the People’s Fourth Amended Complaint in
People v. Purdue Pharma et al
. The court formally lifted a stay of the case at a hearing on Jan. 26, 2018.
WHEN:
Yesterday, Feb. 13, 2018
BACKGROUND:
In 2014, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA) and the County of Santa Clara filed a consumer protection action against five of the world’s largest manufacturers of prescription opioids for deceptive marketing practices. The lawsuit is the first of its kind filed in the United States and alleges opioid manufacturers deceptively marketed narcotic painkillers for long-term health conditions. The Complaint alleges the defendants’ deceptive marketing misled doctors and the public by minimizing the risks and overstating the benefits of opioids for chronic pain conditions. Other jurisdictions have followed the OCDA’s example and over 400 similar lawsuits have been filed across the United States on behalf of counties, cities, and states.
According to Orange County Health Care Agency’s 2017 report, “Drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in the U.S., causing more deaths than auto accidents or gun deaths. An estimated 7 of every 10 drug overdose deaths in Orange County 2011-2015 was due to opioids.”
The OCDA suit alleges this epidemic was fueled in part by marketing to doctors.
On Feb. 10, 2018
, Purdue Pharma Inc., the maker of OxyContin, one of the primary drivers of the opioid epidemic as alleged in the Complaint, announced it would cut its sales force in half and cease direct marketing of opioid products to doctors going forward.
District Attorney Tony Rackauckas stated, “We all know someone who has been directly affected by this epidemic that has touched young and old and all demographics. The OCDA will continue to fight for the health and safety of Orange County citizens in this and other Consumer Protection actions.”
Tagged with:
Purdue Pharma et al
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
