Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody, Convicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody, Convicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
October 17, 2023
Home
Press
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody, Convicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 17, 2023
Case #: 22ZF0010
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody,
Convicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail
Ike Souzer has violent history of attacking correctional officers; Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued a public warning about Souzer after he escaped in April 2022
after being released to halfway house on electronic monitoring
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A 20-year-old man who stabbed his mother to death when he was 13 years old has been convicted after a jury trial on felony charges for manufacturing and possessing a shank while being housed at the Orange County Jail.
Ike Souzer, 20, of Garden Grove, was previously indicted by the Orange County Grand Jury on one felony count of possession of a weapon in a custodial facility and one felony count of manufacturing a weapon in a custodial facility. He faces a maximum sentence of four years of local custody time.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on October 24, 2023.
In April 2022, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued a warning to the public about Souzer, who is considered to be extremely dangerous and violent, after he escaped from the custody of a Santa Ana halfway house following his release on electronic monitoring from the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange. The Orange County District Attorney’s AB 109 Task Force tracked Souzer down and arrested him on Easter at a homeless encampment in Anaheim.
In addition to other charges, Souzer pled guilty in December 2021 to attacking three correctional officers and was ordered to wear an electronic monitor for the remainder of his sentence, which was set to expire on July 9, 2023.
“This individual is extremely dangerous and extremely violent,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Safeguarding the public’s safety is paramount and I am extremely proud of the work my prosecutors in Special Prosecutions have done to continue to continue to keep the public safe from someone who has demonstrated time and time again that he has no issue engaging in violence and will do everything he can to escape from custody.”
Deputy District Attorney Matt Bradbury of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Ike Souzer
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Who was Subject of Orange County District Attorney Warning to Public has Been Recaptured in Mexico, Returned to Custody in Orange County
Press
Orange County District Attorney Warns Public About Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Once Again at Large After Walking Away from Halfway House
Press
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody,  Indicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail - Ike Souzer has violent history of attacking correctional officers; Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued a public warning about Souzer  after he escaped in April after being released to halfway house on electronic monitoring
