Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church
Author
Chase Healy
Published
October 24, 2025
Home
Press
Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 24, 2025
Case #: 21CF2632
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life
for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church
Santa Ana — A church leader has been sentenced to 45 years to life for sexually assaulting three young girls he met while attending church in Santa Ana. He became a pastor at another Santa Ana church following the alleged assaults.
Carlos Ramirez Valdez, 61, of Riverside, was convicted in August of 11 felony counts of lewd or lascivious acts with a minor under the age of 14 and three felony counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 or younger. The assaults occurred between 2012 and 2019.
Valdez was a church leader at Iglesia De Dios Ebenezer Church in Santa Ana during the assaults. Valdez is accused of luring a girl into his van parked in the church parking lot or to the church’s basement to sexually assault the young girl repeatedly over a seven-year period.  The girl was between the ages of four to ten at the time of the assaults.
The girl reported the past abuse to a school counselor.
In January 2020, a girl reported to Garden Grove police that between 2014 to 2015 Valdez sexually assaulted her when he gave her a ride home from church when the main pastor was not available. The girl was nine at the time of the assault.
Also in January 2020, a third girl reported to Riverside police that in 2017 Valdez had repeatedly sexually assaulted her in a backyard shed over an eight-month period. She was seven and eight at the time of the assaults.
“Churches should be safe sanctuaries not hunting grounds for child molesters,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These young girls were subjected to unimaginable abuse by someone in a position of trust. The sexual exploitation of children will never be acceptable, and predators will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Elise Levy of the Sexual Assault Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Carlos Ramirez Valdez
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
