Irvine Chiropractor Charged with Sexually Assaulting Seven Female Patients - Lincoln Carillo had ties to chiropractic offices across Southern California and Virginia; Authorities believe there may be additional victims who have not yet reported assaults - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Irvine Chiropractor Charged with Sexually Assaulting Seven Female Patients – Lincoln Carillo had ties to chiropractic offices across Southern California and Virginia; Authorities believe there may be additional victims who have not yet reported assaults
Author
Mario Gross
Published
July 13, 2022
Home
Press
Irvine Chiropractor Charged with Sexually Assaulting Seven Female Patients – Lincoln Carillo had ties to chiropractic offices across Southern California and Virginia; Authorities believe there may be additional victims who have not yet reported assaults
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  July 13, 2022
Case#: 22HF1006
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Irvine Chiropractor Charged with Sexually Assaulting
Seven Female Patients
Lincoln Carillo had ties to chiropractic offices across Southern California and Virginia; Authorities believe there may be additional victims who have not yet reported assaults
Lincoln Carillo
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 60-year-old chiropractor has been charged with sexually assaulting seven female patients while treating the women at an Irvine clinic.
Lincoln Esguerra Carillo also has ties to other chiropractic offices in the counties of Orange, Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino as well as the state of Virginia. Authorities believe there may be additional victims and are asking for the public’s help in providing additional information regarding any additional victims or information regarding Carillo to the Irvine Police Department.
Carillo was arrested in Virginia last week and was transported to Orange County on Monday. He has been charged with seven felony counts of felony sexual penetration by means of fraudulent representation of a professional purpose, four counts of sexual battery by fraudulent representation of a professional purpose, and 12 misdemeanor counts of touching an intimate part of another person.
Carillo is currently being held on $1 million bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday July 15 in CJ1. He faces a maximum state prison sentence of 24 years.
Carillo worked at Twins Chiropractic in Irvine for approximately 4 years. During the course of his employment, Carillo treated a female patient multiple times for chronic neck pain between April and May 2021. During seven of the visits, Carillo is accused of sexually assaulting the woman. The woman reported the sexual assaults to the Irvine Police Department in May 2021.
Through the course of the investigation, Irvine police identified six more sexual assault victims who had been treated by Carillo at Twins Chiropractic between January and August of 2021, including a woman who required chiropractic care after being injured in a car accident.
Carillo is believed to have had ties to chiropractic offices in Artesia, Los Angeles, Fountain Valley, Seal Beach, Long Beach, Irvine, Orange, Upland, Cerritos, Costa Mesa, Placentia, Garden Grove, Riverside and Herndon, Virginia.
Due to Carillo’s extensive connections throughout Southern California and extending to the east coast, authorities believe there may be additional victims.  Anyone with additional information is asked to contact Irvine Police Detective Nate Ridlon at
nridlon@cityofirvine.org
“Dr. Carillo exploited the high level of trust we place in our medical professionals, to prey upon his victims,” said Irvine Police Chief Michael Kent. “I am thankful for the brave victim that had the courage to come forward and expose his pattern of abuse.  A tremendous amount of investigative work went into identifying and interviewing Dr. Carillo’s patients to locate additional victims and present a case to the District Attorney that would support criminal charges.”
“Vulnerable patients seeking chiropractic treatment for aches and pains should not have to worry about being sexually assaulted,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Chiropractors and other medical professionals are trusted by their patients to treat them with the dignity and respect that they deserve. Instead, this individual preyed on their vulnerability and sexually assaulted them. The Irvine Police Department did an incredible job pursuing a sexual predator and together we will do everything we can to achieve justice for these women.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Juliet Oliver of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Chiropractor
Lincoln Esguerra Carillo
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
