Man Charged with Attempted Murder for Stabbing his 8-year-old Son in the Neck Repeatedly with a Screwdriver, Slashing Him with Knife After Telling Boy he was Going to Send him Home to God - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Charged with Attempted Murder for Stabbing his 8-year-old Son in the Neck Repeatedly with a Screwdriver, Slashing Him with Knife After Telling Boy he was Going to Send him Home to God
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
February 15, 2024
Home
Press
Man Charged with Attempted Murder for Stabbing his 8-year-old Son in the Neck Repeatedly with a Screwdriver, Slashing Him with Knife After Telling Boy he was Going to Send him Home to God
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 15, 2024
Case #: 24CF0417
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged with Attempted Murder for Stabbing his
8-year-old Son in the Neck Repeatedly with a Screwdriver, Slashing Him with Knife
After Telling Boy he was Going to Send him Home to God
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old Santa Ana man has been charged with attempted murder for stabbing his 8-year-old son in the neck several times with a screwdriver and slashing him in the hands with a knife while the boy was visiting him at a sober living facility.
Christopher Lee Kearns, 28, of Santa Ana has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder, one felony count of child abuse and endangerment, and two felony enhancements of personally using a deadly weapon. He was also charged with one felony enhancement of inflicting great bodily injury. He faces a maximum sentence of15 years and four months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Kearns is scheduled to be arraigned on March 1, 2024 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C55. He is currently being held at the Intake Release Center in lieu of $700,000 bond.
The 8-year-old’s mother and step-father had arrived at the sober living facility on February 10, 2024 to pick up the boy after a visit with his father. Kearns is accused of taking the boy into his room at the facility and putting the boy on his lap to talk about God while the boy’s mother and stepfather were in the driveway.
Kearns is accused of telling his son that he was going to send him home to God before putting his hand over his son’s mouth and nose to keep him from yelling for help and then attacking the boy with a screwdriver and knife while he held him down on the bed. The boy was stabbed twice in the neck with the screwdriver and had defensive wounds from the knife.
Another resident heard the boy’s screams and pulled Kearns off the boy, who was bleeding profusely. The boy was taken to Children’s Hospital of Orange County (CHOC) in Orange where he remained hospitalized for several days.
“This little boy was in the fight for his life against his own father, and it is nothing short of a miracle that he managed to survive being stabbed twice in the neck,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is unimaginable the absolute fear that this child felt knowing that his own father tried to stab him to death while his mother was outside waiting to pick him up. We are so grateful for the amazing work of the staff at CHOC to save this little boy’s life and we are committed to pursuing justice for this little boy.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Christopher Lee Kearns
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 8 =
