REPEAT SEXUAL OFFENDER TO BE SENTENCED FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A GIRL AT HER BACHLORETTE PARTY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
REPEAT SEXUAL OFFENDER TO BE SENTENCED FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A GIRL AT HER BACHLORETTE PARTY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 24, 2006
Home
Press
REPEAT SEXUAL OFFENDER TO BE SENTENCED FOR SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A GIRL AT HER BACHLORETTE PARTY
For Immediate Release
July 21, 2006
Contact:
Susan Schroeder
Public Affairs Counsel
(714) 347-8408 Office
(714) 323-4486 Cell
Santa Ana – A repeat sexual offender will be sentenced Monday for sexually assaulting a girl at her bachelorette party in 2001.
Shane Sanches, 55, of
Lake Forest, faces 21 years in prison after pleading guilty to one count of genital penetration by a foreign object and one count of first degree burglary.
He is scheduled to be sentenced Monday, July 24, 2006 at 9:00 a.m. in C37, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
The victim will give a victim impact statement.
On September 10, 2000, Sanches observed a bachelorette party in progress at a condo near his home.
He was aware that the bachelorette was in the bathroom, and he entered the bathroom with the intent to sexually assault her.
He lifted the victim’s skirt and digitally penetrated her.
The victim began to scream and her friends came downstairs to find Sanches in the bathroom.
Sanches was arrested and placed in custody.
A burglary is constituted by entering an inhabited dwelling with the intent to commit a felony, in this case a sexual assault.
Sanches plead guilty to the burglary charge as well as the charge for genital penetration.
The 21 year sentence for sexually assaulting the bachelorette will be served consecutively to the 55 years to life sentence Sanches received for sexually assaulting his then-wife.
While Sanches was in custody for assaulting the bachelorette, he convinced a bail bondsman to let him out on the condition that his then-wife would sign the necessary paperwork.
His wife refused to sign the papers, and as retaliation he kidnapped his wife on May 26, 2001, raped her repeatedly and beat her.
On May 8, 2003, an Orange County jury found Sanches guilty.
On August 8, 2003, Judge William Evans sentenced him to 55 year to life in prison for corporal injury to a spouse, attempted false imprisonment by violence, spousal rape, and resisting a police officer.
At the sentencing, the District Attorney’s office will present aggravating factors in addition to the sexual assault of the
bachelorette
and Sanches’ then-wife.
Sanches had a history of sexual violence dating back to the late 1980s.
This includes three victims and ten sexual assault convictions. These prior convictions will not be considered in the current sentencing, as Judge Gary Paer has made the decision to strike the priors in the `interest of justice.‘ in a previous hearing
Deputy District Attorney Shaddi Kamiabipour is prosecuting this case.
###
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
