Man Charged with Hate Crime, Violation of Civil Rights for Attacking Newport Beach 7-Eleven Owner with Bottle - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crime, Violation of Civil Rights for Attacking Newport Beach 7-Eleven Owner with Bottle
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 11, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime, Violation of Civil Rights for Attacking Newport Beach 7-Eleven Owner with Bottle
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 11, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Charged with Hate Crime, Violation of Civil Rights for Attacking Newport Beach 7-Eleven Owner with Bottle
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man is facing felony hate crime and violation of civil rights charges for attacking the owner of a Newport Beach 7-Eleven with a bottle after being asked to leave the business. The defendant is accused of using racial slurs and made disparaging remarks about immigrants.
Danny Martin Loros, 64, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm, one felony count of violation of civil rights causing violent injury, and one felony hate crime enhancement.
He faces a maximum sentence of seven years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
On May 7, 2021, Loros is accused of throwing a liquor bottle at the owner of a 7-Eleven store, striking the victim in the stomach.
Loros is accused of using racial slurs and making denigrating comments regarding immigrants.
He is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $40,000 bail.
“Business owners should be able to run their businesses without fear of being attacked because of how they look,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Hate crimes are not only devastating for the individual victims, they are also devastating for the entire community because of the fear these kinds of crimes create. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is fully committed to holding haters accountable and prosecuting hate-motivated crimes to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney William Ha of the office’s newly created Hate Crime Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Danny Martin Loros
Hate Crime
Violation of Civil Rights
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
