Statement - District Attorney Meeting Regarding Joseph DeAngelo case - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Statement – District Attorney Meeting Regarding Joseph DeAngelo case
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 11, 2018
Home
Press
Statement – District Attorney Meeting Regarding Joseph DeAngelo case
Date: May 11, 2018
STATEMENT
SANTA ANA, Calif – Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas, Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert, Santa Barbara County District Attorney Joyce Dudley, and Ventura County District Attorney Gregory Totten met today at the Santa Barbara District Attorney’s Office with members of their staff and representatives of various law enforcement agencies involved to discuss the next steps in the prosecution of Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, Citrus Heights.
Many important issues were discussed, but no decisions were made regarding where the case may be tried or the composition of the trial team.
All agencies are united in their resolve to ensure DeAngelo is held accountable for the crimes he is accused of committing throughout California.
The District Attorneys are scheduled to meet in late June to discuss further details while their staff will continue to prepare this case for trial.
There will be no further comment regarding this matter.
Tagged with:
Burglary
Crime Spree
Joseph James DeAngelo Jr
Kidnapping
Murder
Rape
Robbery
Serial Killer
the East Area Rapist
the Golden State Killer.
the Original Night Stalker
the Visalia Ransacker
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
