REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS - KEVIN FERGUSON NEWS CONFERENCE - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – KEVIN FERGUSON NEWS CONFERENCE
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 24, 2018
Home
Press
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – KEVIN FERGUSON NEWS CONFERENCE
Date: January 24, 2018
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY
TONY RACKAUCKAS
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Good morning and thank you for joining us today. After reviewing this matter in full, I decided to hold a press conference and provide an update on the status of the Kevin Ferguson filing. The video you are about to watch received national media attention and was widely shared on social media when the incident took place in the city of Anaheim back in February of last year. Since that time, we have continued to receive calls and letters inquiring about the status of this case.
I feel the need to warn you in advance; this video is very uncomfortable to watch. It’s graphic in not only the actions taken, but in the language used by Kevin Ferguson, a 33-year-old off-duty police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department who profanely confronted a female juvenile for cutting across his property. Apparently, this was an ongoing concern for the Fergusons, who live near a school. The young girl was one of four students walking home in a group that day.
A verbal exchange occurred between Ferguson and the juveniles. As you will hear in the video, at one point Ferguson called the young girl a very offensive and derogatory term at which time, one of the male juveniles she was walking with came to her defense, pointing out the inappropriateness of Ferguson’s behavior and conduct. The incident continued to escalate and lasted for approximately 16 minutes until Anaheim Police Department officers arrived on scene.
Before turning this over to Assistant District Attorney Brahim Baytieh of the Special Prosecutions Unit, who will show the video and provide additional detail, it is important to point out that we have a moral and ethical obligation to file only those charges that are supported by the evidence and can be proven beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Also, it is important to understand that we do not have jurisdiction over the discipline of police officers in other jurisdictions, so I will defer any such questions to the LAPD.
Central to the case at hand are two issues:
Does the evidence establish beyond a reasonable doubt that Ferguson did not have a legal right to detain John Doe;
and does the evidence establish beyond a reasonable doubt that Ferguson used an unreasonable amount of force while detaining John Doe?
I don’t believe there is anyone who watches this video who is OK with the way Ferguson handled himself. We just cannot prove a case beyond a reasonable doubt against him.
This concludes the formal portion of our press conference and we have time to take a few questions. Thank you again for joining us today.
Tagged with:
Kevin Ferguson
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Media Advisory - News Conference announcing filing decision for Kevin Ferguson
