Irvine Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Irvine Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 1, 2020
Home
Press
Irvine Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
Irvine Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Irvine doctor was convicted of first degree for the killing of his estranged wife’s lover.  The defendant was also convicted of stabbing the victim’s female friend before fleeing the crime scene.
Hongli Sun, 43, of Irvine, was convicted of one felony count of first-degree murder with a felony enhancement for using a deadly weapon, and one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon with a felony enhancement of inflicting great bodily injury.  He faces a maximum sentence of 26 years to life.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on October 30, 2020.
On July 18, 2015, Sun drove to Dr. Xuan Liu’s dental office on Barranca Parkway in Irvine and sat in his Mercedes waiting for Liu to return.  Sun discovered months before that Liu was having an affair with Sun’s wife.
Sun intentionally drove into Liu in the parking lot and then stabbed Liu multiple times.  The 54-year-old dentist died at the scene. Sun also stabbed a women who attempted to intervene in the attack.
“Even though there were multiple witnesses to the murder, this was not an easy case to prosecute,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The defense attempted to paint this as a crime of passion, but Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney was masterful in walking the jurors through the elements of the crime to show this was a cold calculated choice by the defendant to end another human being’s life.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
great bodily injury
Hongli Sun
Murder
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
