Man Charged with Hate Crime for Vandalizing Westminster Mosque - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Vandalizing Westminster Mosque
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
April 1, 2022
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Vandalizing Westminster Mosque
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  April 1, 2022
Case # 22WF0840
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 40-year-old man has been charged with a hate crime and felony vandalism of a place of worship for using a gallon-sized paint can and paint to vandalize a mosque in Westminster.
Ernesto Martinez, 40, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of vandalism of $400 or more, one felony count of vandalism of a place of worship with the purpose of intimidation, one felony hate crime enhancement, and one misdemeanor count of violation of civil rights – property damage.
He faces a maximum sentence of six years in prison if convicted on all counts.
On March 30, 2022, an employee at the Al Noor Foundation Mosque in the 14500 block of Goldenwest Street in Westminster saw a man, later identified as Martinez, try to break one of the mosque’s windows. Martinez is also accused of hitting the mosque’s front door with a gallon-sized paint can and then throwing paint onto one of the windows.
A Westminster police officer stopped Martinez as he walked near the mosque. Martinez had paint on his clothes and hand and told the officer that the mosque’s God had disrespected his God.
Martinez is currently being held without bail at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
“Houses of worship are sacred places that should be safe havens from hate and violence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Today, Muslims across the world begin celebrating Ramadan, a month of fasting, prayer, and reflection. Those celebrations must be able to go on uninterrupted and without the fear of someone trying to deface a house of worship.  No one has the right to take that serenity from another person and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will do everything we can to hold haters accountable and protect the rights of everyone to worship in peace.”
Deputy District Attorney William Ha of the Hate Crimes Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Ernesto Martinez
Felony Vandalism
Hate Crime
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
