Former Jamaican Police Officer, Two Others Charged With Murder of Irvine Man - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Jamaican Police Officer, Two Others Charged With Murder of Irvine Man
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 23, 2020
Home
Press
Former Jamaican Police Officer, Two Others Charged With Murder of Irvine Man
Case# 19CF3406
Former Jamaican Police Officer, Two Others Charged With Murder of Irvine Man
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Jamaican police officer and two other men have been charged with murdering an Irvine man and seriously injuring another during a home invasion robbery in October.
Devon Quinland, 33, of Westminster, Andre Andrews, 34, of Miramar, Fla., and Omar Miller, 41, of Lauderdale, Fla., have each been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of conspiracy to commit a crime, and one felony count of assault with a firearm.
The three men are also charged with the special circumstances of murder committed during the commission of a robbery and murder committed during the commission of a burglary. Additionally, Andrew and Miller are charged with three felony enhancements for personal use of a firearm and inflicting great bodily injury.
Miller is a former Jamaican police officer.
All three men could be eligible for the death penalty if convicted on all charges.
On Saturday, Oct. 26, at approximately 5:45 a.m., the Irvine Police Department and Orange County Fire Authority were dispatched to a call of an injured man in a residential neighborhood in Irvine.
A man told officers that he and his roommate had been assaulted inside a home on Bayleaf Lane. Officers entered the residence on Bayleaf Lane and found a second man who was suffering several gunshot wounds. Both victims were taken to a local hospital and the gunshot victim, later identified as Raymond Alcala, 20, of Irvine, was pronounced dead. The second victim survived.
Quinland was arrested by Irvine police in the City of Westminster on December 17, 2019. Irvine police, with the assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, arrested Andrews and Miller in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on the same day. Andrews and Miller were extradited back to California on January 22, 2020.
All three defendants are being held without bail in the Orange County Jail. Quinland is scheduled to be arraigned on February 28, 2020 at the Central Justice in Department C55.
“The men and women of the Irvine Police Department worked diligently to identify the individuals responsible for committing this horrible crime and we thank our law enforcement partners in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), including the FBI Orange County Violent Crime Task Force and the FBI South Florida Violent Crime and Fugitive Task Force, for their assistance in this case,” said Irvine Police Chief Mike Hamel.
“The arrest and prosecution of these three individuals is a testament to the close working relationship the Irvine Police Department has across multiple jurisdictions and across state lines,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is this commitment to justice that is allowing the Orange County District Attorney’s Office to prosecute these murderers to the fullest extent of the law.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Janine Madera of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Andre Andrews
Burglary
Conspiracy to Commit Crime
Devon Quinland
Firearm
Murder
Omar Miller
Robbery
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
