Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Newport Beach Homeowner of Criminal Wrongdoing for Shooting, Killing Home Intruder - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Newport Beach Homeowner of Criminal Wrongdoing for Shooting, Killing Home Intruder
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 11, 2021
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Newport Beach Homeowner of Criminal Wrongdoing for Shooting, Killing Home Intruder
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 11, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer has cleared a Newport Beach homeowner of any criminal wrongdoing for shooting and killing an intruder who broke into his home in August.
At approximately 4:10 a.m. on Thursday, August 26, 2021, 23-year-old Henry Lehr left a residential detox center. Before he left, Lehr told staff at the detox center that he was hearing and seeing “demons.”
After leaving the center, Lehr broke into the backyard of a home a few doors down. He then went to the front door of the home and repeatedly banged on the door and rang the doorbell, demanding to be let inside.
He then broke down the front door and started to walk up the stairs where the homeowner and his wife had been sleeping in their bedroom.
The commotion at his front door woke up the homeowner, who retrieved his pistol and found an intruder, later identified as Lehr, on his stairs. The homeowner yelled at the intruder to identify himself and told him not to keep coming up the stairs. The intruder did not answer and charged up the stairs.
The homeowner fired his weapon once, hitting the intruder in the upper chest. The homeowner told his wife to call 911 and ask for police and medical aid. Lehr was pronounced dead.
The homeowner later told police that he shot the intruder in his home because he feared for his life and safety and that of his wife.
California Penal Section 198.5 states, in pertinent part, the following: “Any person using force intended or likely to cause death or great bodily injury within his or her residence shall be presumed to have held a reasonable fear of imminent peril of death or great bodily injury to self, family, or a member of the household when that force is used against another person, not a member of the family or household, who unlawfully and forcibly enters or has unlawfully and forcibly entered the residence and the person using the force knew or had reason to believe that an unlawful and forcible entry occurred.”
“A homeowner has the absolute right to protect themselves from someone who breaks into their home in the middle of the night and threatens their safety,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The loss of life is tragic in any situation and this situation is made even more tragic by the fact that an individual who went to a group home to get help with his addiction issues ended up on a deadly collision course with a homeowner who just sleeping in his own bed in his own house. I have fought against allowing group homes in residential neighborhoods my entire career, including as a member of the state Legislature, for this very reason. People at that group home knew that young man was struggling – yet no one went to check on him. People struggling with addiction issues need to have a safe environment where they can work toward sobriety and people living in residential neighborhoods should not have to live in fear of waking up to someone struggling with addiction breaking down their front door.”
###
Tagged with:
Addiction
Henry Lehr
Home Defense
Shooting
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
Huntington Beach Personal Trainer Convicted of  Two Counts of First-degree Murder for Shooting Man, Woman in Head in Newport Beach Condo Defendant was targeting male rivals he thought were having romantic relationships with his ex-girlfriend; defense argued woman was killed because defendant mistakenly believed a blonde woman was his girlfriend in bed with another man
