Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Author
Justin Yun
Published
March 9, 2026
Home
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 9, 2026
Case #: 26CF1300
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
An Orange County Sheriff’s deputy has been charged with voluntary manslaughter for shooting and killing her fiancée in their Tustin apartment last summer after the victim returned from an early morning daily walk with her dog. The two women both worked at the Orange County Jail.
Aimee Alexis Hidalgo, 28, of Tustin, turned herself into Tustin police on Monday after she was charged with one felony count of voluntary manslaughter and one felony enhancement of personal use of a firearm. She faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Hidalgo is currently on administrative leave from her job as a Sheriff’s deputy in the Orange County Sheriff’s Department assigned to the Orange County Jail. Hidalgo became an Orange County Sheriff’s deputy in 2021.
Shaw worked at the Orange County Jail in Correctional Health. The couple was planning a destination wedding in Mexico in November 2025.
On August 8, 2025, at approximately 5:10 a.m., exterior Ring footage shows 35-year-old Brittany Shaw leaving the couple’s studio apartment to walk her dog and then returning to the apartment at 5:20 a.m. with the dog.
Seconds after Shaw returned to the apartment, Hidalgo is accused of shooting her fiancée nine times. Shaw was shot in the torso, right arm, and in the head, a shot which according to the coroner’s report was at “close intermediate range” discharged less than eight inches from the victims’ head.
Hidalgo called 911 and gave Shaw CPR in an effort to resuscitate Shaw, but those efforts were unsuccessful, and Shaw was pronounced dead.
“Human life is our most precious gift, and to lose the gift of life in your own home at the hands of someone you were engaged to is an indescribable tragedy,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Lady Justice is blindfolded for a reason, to ensure justice is carried out without bias or prejudice, regardless of who is the accused. The badge is not a shield from prosecution; rather it is a symbol of the oath a sworn officer takes to uphold the law, on and off duty. When that oath is broken, the law applies equally to those with and without a badge and our duty to pursue justice for Brittany and all of those who loved her will be pursued in a court of law.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Anna McIntire of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Aimee Alexis Hidalgo
Homicide
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
Press
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
