Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s Neck Snapped - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s Neck Snapped
Author
Chase Healy
Published
December 3, 2025
Home
Press
Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s Neck Snapped
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 3, 2025
Case #: 25NF5561
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged
with Felony Animal Cruelty
For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s
Neck Snapped
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A Buena Park man on probation for attacking a coworker with a metal pipe has been charged with felony animal cruelty for killing a pregnant dog by attaching a rope to his SUV and a parking bollard, wrapping the dog’s neck in the rope and driving until the animal’s neck had been snapped.
Eric Lyn Holliday, 58, of Buena Park, has been charged with one felony count of animal cruelty and one felony count of possession of a hard drug with two or more prior convictions. He has also been charged with violating his probation.
Holliday is currently on two years of formal probation after he plead guilty on October 15, 2025 to one felony count of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury and one felony count of vandalism causing damage of $400 or more.
Holliday faces a maximum sentence of eight years and four months for the felony animal cruelty charge and the felony possession of a hard drug with two or more prior convictions. He faces an additional maximum sentence of four years and eight months for violating his probation.
On Monday, December 1, 2025, at about 7:35 a.m., surveillance video captured a Ford Expedition driving into the alley in the 600 block of S. Brookhurst Street in Anaheim. A man, later identified as Holliday, is seen getting out of the driver’s door holding a white rope and proceeding to loop one end of the rope around a yellow parking bollard and the other end of the rope onto the tow hitch ball of the Ford Expedition.
Holliday is then seen taking a milk crate which contained a small white dog out of the passenger side of the vehicle and looping the center of the rope around the dog’s neck and tilting the crate for the dog to walk out. Holliday is seen getting back into the driver’s seat of the vehicle, accelerating forward to tighten the rope around the dog’s neck, snapping the animal’s neck. Holliday is seen on the video getting out to look at the dog before getting back in his vehicle and driving away, leaving the dead dog in the alley. The dog, believed to be a six-year-old Maltese, had suffered a severed spine and arteries.
A few hours later, the manager of a business in the 600 block of S. Brookhurst Street found the dead dog in the alley and called the Anaheim Police Department to investigate. Holliday was identified by Anaheim police and arrested. He is accused of having several baggies of methamphetamine in his possession when he was arrested.
“There is a special place in hell for people who abuse animals,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This was not an act of rage. This was a clear plan to kill a defenseless animal, and when he executed his plan, he drove off, leaving the animal’s body in the alley for someone else to discover the horror of what he had done. Only someone who is pure evil could engage in such reprehensible conduct, and we will ensure the Court clearly understands what this individual is capable of and the threat he poses to public safety before any sentence is imposed. Violence against animals will never be tolerated, and every act of animal abuse will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Michael Chay of the Consumer & Environmental Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Consumer & Environmental Protection
Eric Lyn Holliday
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Federal Charges Filed Against Former Orange County Prosecutor and Current Orange County Judge Israel Claustro for Defrauding California’s Workers’ Compensation Program
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other  California District Attorneys in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million  Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access  for Inspections of Cell Towers, Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations, and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees
Press
Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence
