Two Men Charged with Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Woman Walking Home in Huntington - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Two Men Charged with Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Woman Walking Home in Huntington
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
June 11, 2021
Home
Press
Two Men Charged with Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Woman Walking Home in Huntington
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 11, 2021
Case # 21WF1536
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Two Men Charged with Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting
Woman Walking Home in Huntington
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Two men have been charged with kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 27-year-old woman who was walking home from downtown Huntington Beach just before midnight on Sunday. The woman flagged down a passing motorist after her attackers threw her out of the vehicle on Pacific Coast Highway.
Florentino Bacilio, 47, of Long Beach, and Angel Lopezevaristo, 30, of Long Beach, have both been charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit rape, one felony count of sodomy, and one felony count of forcible sexual penetration with a foreign object.
Bacilio and Lopezevaristo each face a maximum sentence of 57 years to life if convicted on all charges.
On Sunday, June 6, a 27-year-old woman was walking home from downtown Huntington Beach just before midnight. Bacilio and Lopezevaristo are accused of stopping their vehicle and kidnapping the woman, throwing her into their vehicle against her will.
The men are accused of gagging, choking and sexual assaulting the woman, who lost consciousness during the assault. Her attackers threw her out of the vehicle after she regained consciousness and continued fighting back. She flagged down a passing motorist who called police.
“Being grabbed off the street, gagged, and sexually assaulted is the stuff nightmares are made of,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “That nightmare became reality for this victim and thankfully, by the grace of God, she survived. No woman should have to live in fear that a walk home would result in the horror she was forced to endure.”
Deputy District Attorney Alyssa Staudinger of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Angel Lopezevaristo
Florentino Bacilio
Kidnapping
Rape
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
