DJ Charged with Molesting 12-year-old he Met While working at Virtual Reality Studio in Irvine - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
DJ Charged with Molesting 12-year-old he Met While working at Virtual Reality Studio in Irvine
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 7, 2025
Home
Press
DJ Charged with Molesting 12-year-old he Met While working at Virtual Reality Studio in Irvine
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 7, 2025
Case #: 25HF0018
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
DJ Charged with Molesting 12-year-old he Met While working at
Virtual Reality Studio in Irvine
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 37-year-old DJ at a virtual reality store at the Irvine Spectrum has been arrested on suspicion of molesting a 12-year-old boy after meeting the child at the gaming store.
Haifeng Cai, 37, of Irvine, has been charged with three felony counts of committing lewd and lascivious acts with a child under the age of 14 years old.
Cai faces a maximum sentence of 12 years in state prison if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held in lieu of $1 million bond.
Cai, who goes by the name “DJ Novus,” is accused of meeting the 12-year-old through his work at the Odyssey Virtual Reality store at the Irvine Spectrum.
On December 14, 2024, Irvine police were called after a security guard at the Spectrum saw a man and a boy in the backseat of a vehicle with the windows fogged up. The man was later identified as Cai. Evidence collected by police shows Cai touching the boy inappropriately on three separate occasions.
“The sexual abuse of an innocent child is something that should outrage our entire community and we will continue to do everything we can to continue to protect children from the monsters who seek to prey on them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is an incredibly vulnerable victim who sought out belonging and instead of a trusted mentor, he found himself in the arms of a parents’ worst nightmare.”
Anyone with additional information about Cai or other potential victims is asked to call Irvine Police Detective David Misko at 949-724-7168 or email dmisko@cityofirvine.org
Senior Deputy District Attorney Kelcie Wiemann of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Haifeng Cai
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
