Mission Viejo Dermatologist Indicted by Orange County Grand Jury for Poisoning her Husband with Liquid Drain Cleaner, Domestic Battery - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Mission Viejo Dermatologist Indicted by Orange County Grand Jury for Poisoning her Husband with Liquid Drain Cleaner, Domestic Battery
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 5, 2023
Home
Press
Mission Viejo Dermatologist Indicted by Orange County Grand Jury for Poisoning her Husband with Liquid Drain Cleaner, Domestic Battery
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 5, 2023
Case # 23ZF0002
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Mission Viejo Dermatologist Indicted by Orange County Grand Jury
for Poisoning her Husband with Liquid Drain Cleaner, Domestic Battery
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Mission Viejo dermatologist has been indicted by an Orange County Grand Jury on multiple felonies for allegedly poisoning her husband over several weeks with a liquid drain cleaner by pouring it into his tea resulting in stomach ulcers.
Yue “Emily” Yu, 45, of Irvine has been indicted on three felony counts of poisoning and one felony count of domestic battery with corporal injury. She faces a maximum sentence of eight years and eight months if convicted on all counts. She is scheduled to be arraigned on April 18, 2023 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C5.
The grand jury indictment detailing the charges against Yu was unsealed this morning.
The handing down of the indictment requires Yu to self-report to the Medical Board of California, which will determine whether she will be allowed to continue to practice medicine.
In early April 2022, Yu’s husband began noticing a strange taste to the tea he drinks every day. When the taste continued, he installed cameras in the family’s Irvine kitchen to see if he could capture any evidence of why his tea tastes strange.
On July 11, July 18, and July 25, 2022, video captured Yue Yu pouring a substance out of a bottle of liquid drain cleaner into her husband’s tea that was left on the counter. Her husband also collected samples of the tea and turned them over to the Irvine Police Department.
The samples were later turned over to the FBI for testing, which confirmed the substance was consistent with liquid drain cleaner.
Yu was arrested by Irvine police in August 2022 on suspicion of poisoning. She was released from custody after posting a $30,000 bond.
“Our homes should be where we feel the safest,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Yet, a licensed medical professional capitalized on her husband’s daily rituals to torment her husband by systematically plying his tea with a Drano-like substance intending to cause him pain and suffering. Thank you to the Irvine Police Department for its diligence in thoroughly investigating this case and to Deputy District Attorney Diana King for her conscientious legal review that allowed the case to be successfully presented to the Grand Jury for an indictment.”
Deputy District Attorney Diana King of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Yue Emily Yu
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 6 =
