Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Felony Domestic Battery - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Felony Domestic Battery
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 20, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Felony Domestic Battery
Case # 20HF0283
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Felony Domestic Battery
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old Orange County Sheriff’s deputy pleaded not guilty today to attacking his girlfriend after a birthday celebration in January.
Kyle Edward Pickard, of Rancho Santa Margarita, is charged with one felony count of domestic battery with corporal injury, one felony count of making criminal threats, and one felony count of false imprisonment by violence or menace in connection with the January 19, 2020 incident.  He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Pickard turned himself into authorities today and was released on $50,000 bail. He is scheduled to appear at the Harbor Justice Center on March 19, 2020 in Department H1.
“Law enforcement officers are entrusted with protecting society from harm,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is a sad day when a law enforcement officer violates the law he is entrusted to uphold. As a sworn peace officer, he sees this type of violence in his career all too often and he should know there are other options. Violence is never the answer.”
Deputy District Attorney Tara Meath of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
corporal injury
Criminal threats
Domestic Battery
False Advertising
Kyle Edward Pickard
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Third-Striker from Los Angeles Charged with Extortion, Assault with Firearm in Connection with Attacks on Newport Beach Woman
Press
Garden Grove Police Officer Charged with Battering, Threatening Homeless People while on Duty
Press
Uber Driver Charged with Kidnapping, Assaulting Passenger
