Senator Archuleta and DA Spitzer Introduce Legislation to Hold Serial Thieves Accountable - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Senator Archuleta and DA Spitzer Introduce Legislation to Hold Serial Thieves Accountable
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
January 17, 2024
Home
Press
Senator Archuleta and DA Spitzer Introduce Legislation to Hold Serial Thieves Accountable
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
January 17, 2024
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Senator Archuleta and DA Spitzer Introduce Legislation to Hold Serial Thieves Accountable
Norwalk, CA – Senator Bob Archuleta (D-Pico Rivera) is proud to announce the introduction of SB 923, which would increase penalties for repeat theft offenders by re-implementing serial theft provisions that were eliminated by Prop 47. The bill ensures that, beginning on a third offense, serial thieves are charged with between 6 months and three years’ imprisonment. This will end the current practice of repeat offenders being released without jail time. As a former law enforcement officer, Senator Archuleta has seen first-hand the damage that California’s inability to prosecute serial offenders has created.
“Rampant theft and property crime has created a national narrative that crime goes unpunished in California. We must take steps to ensure that law enforcement has every tool available to them to keep our communities safe,” Senator Archuleta said. “While well intentioned, it is clear that areas of Prop 47 require reform. SB 923 will improve California’s ability to stop organized, professional groups of thieves that target California’s neighborhoods.”
California continues to suffer from an unprecedented increase in all types of theft, including organized retail theft, smash and grabs, and vehicle thefts that negatively affect crime victims, consumers, and business owners. Passed in 2014, Prop 47 made certain property crimes under $950 a misdemeanor as well as removed Penal Code 666.1 dealing with Serial Theft. SB 923 would re-implement serial theft provisions prior to Prop 47 while leaving the $950 threshold as is. In doing this, SB 923 specifically targets enforcement efforts at repeat criminals who continue to steal after multiple prior convictions.
“Repeat offenders aren’t accidental criminals. They know they are breaking the law by stealing and they do it anyway because current law makes the risk far less than the reward,” Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “There has to be a consequence for breaking the law and repeat offenders have to be subjected to those consequences. Theft is not a victimless crime. Every item stolen out of a business results in higher prices for law-abiding residents and makes the cost of doing business that much higher for hardworking business owners. I want to thank Senator Archuleta for his efforts to stop the theft epidemic in California by making it clear that crime doesn’t pay.”
Senator Bob Archuleta currently represents the 30th Senate District, which includes portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County. He is the Chair of the Senate Committee on Military and Veterans Affairs, and a member of the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee, Government Organization Committee, Transportation Committee, as well as the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Management. Website of Senator Bob Archuleta: https://sd30.senate.ca.gov/
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
CA State Senator Bob Archuleta
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 2 =
