MEDIA ADVISORY - Jeen Han parole release - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY – Jeen Han parole release
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 21, 2018
Home
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY – Jeen Han parole release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case #96HF1017
Date: June 21, 2018
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO: Jeen “Gina” Han, 44
WHAT: Was released from Central California Women’s Facility in Chowchilla on parole after the Board of Parole Hearings granted parole at her initial hearing on Oct. 31, 2017. Han was convicted of conspiring to murder her twin sister in 1998 and sentenced to 26 years to life in state prison. Due to Han’s unreasonable risk of danger to society, Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) Tony Rackauckas expressed opposition to Han’s parole and petitioned Governor Jerry Brown to use executive power to reverse the Board’s decision.
District Attorney Rackauckas stated, “Jeen ‘Gina’ Han is a manipulative and dangerous individual who hatched an elaborate plan to have her own twin sister murdered.  She is a career criminal with a long rap sheet of offenses including second degree burglary, grand theft, check forgery, receiving stolen property, and more.  Han has been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder with antisocial traits, a condition she has chosen not to address or seek treatment for.  She poses a serious public safety risk, which is why my office urged the Parole Board to reconsider.  It is disappointing the OCDA’s request to keep her in prison was denied.”
The full letter, “
Letter to Governor Jerry Brown Opposing Parole of Jeen Han
,” is available at www.orangecountyda.org by selecting
Letters
under the Reports pull-down menu.
WHEN: Thursday, May 24, 2018
Tagged with:
Jeen Han
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Letter to Governor Jerry Brown Opposing Parole of Jeen Han
