Three YouTube Stars, Two Other Drivers Charged with Conspiracy, Multiple other Felonies for Engaging in Illegal Orange County - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
14 min read
Three YouTube Stars, Two Other Drivers Charged with Conspiracy, Multiple other Felonies for Engaging in Illegal Orange County
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 28, 2021
Home
Press
Three YouTube Stars, Two Other Drivers Charged with Conspiracy, Multiple other Felonies for Engaging in Illegal Orange County
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 21HF0133
Date: January 25, 2021
Contact:  Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Orange County District Attorney
Office:    714-347-8405
Cell:        714-504-1917
PRESS RELEASE
Sgt. Karie Davies
Public Information Officer
Irvine Police Department
949-724-7112
Three YouTube Stars, Two Other Drivers Charged with Conspiracy, Multiple other Felonies for Engaging in Illegal Orange County Street Races
One of the drivers was out on bail for evading police during a pursuit, resisting a police officer when he is accused of illegal racing at speeds that reached 160 miles per hour
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Three YouTube stars and two other drivers have been charged with multiple felonies for conspiring to engage in illegal street races across Orange County, including races that reached speeds in excess of 160 miles per hour. Irvine police arrested the five men on Tuesday following a six-month long investigation into street racing on the 241 and the 261 Toll Roads beginning last January.
Rushdan Mohammad Abdallah, 26, of Lake Forest, has been charged with six felony counts of conspiracy to commit the crime of engaging in a speed contest, six misdemeanor counts of engaging in a speed contest, six misdemeanor counts of reckless driving, and four infractions for speeding in excess of 100 miles per hour.
Abdallah is accused of being out on bail on charges he evaded police during a pursuit and resisted a police officer in November 2019 when he continued to coordinate with other street racers to set up illegal races across Orange County last year.
Abdallah posted street racing videos to his YouTube channel that has hundreds of thousands of followers with the videos regularly attracting millions of views. Videos on his channel also show him soliciting viewers to provide him with other street racing competitors.
He has been released on $20,000 bail. Abdallah faces a maximum sentence of 8 years and 8 months in state prison plus 540 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Two of Abdallah’s vehicles have been impounded and he has been ordered by a judge not to drive.
Aaron Hamed Waseeq, 25, of La Verne, is charged with two felony counts of conspiracy to commit the crime of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of reckless driving, one misdemeanor count of aiding and abetting a speed contest, and one infraction for speeding in excess of 100 miles per hour.
Waseeq has been released on $20,000 bail. He faces a maximum sentence of 3 years and 8 months in state prison plus 270 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges. Waseeq’s vehicle has been impounded.
Daniel Joaquin Rodriguez, 21, of La Verne, has been charged with two felony counts of conspiracy to commit the crime of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of reckless driving, one misdemeanor count of aiding and abetting a speed contest, and one infraction for speeding in excess of 100 miles per hour.
Rodriguez was released on $0 bail. He faces a maximum sentence of 3 years and 8 months in state prison plus 270 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges. Rodriquez’ vehicle has been impounded.
Rodriguez and Waseeq also have YouTube channels that feature their illegal street races in Orange County.
Sean Lozai Stuart, 36, of Irvine, has been charged with one felony count of conspiracy to commit the crime of engaging in a speed contest, one misdemeanor count of engaging in a speed contest, one misdemeanor count of reckless driving, and one infraction for speeding in excess of 100 miles per hour.
Stuart was released on $0 bail. He faces a maximum sentence of 3 years in state prison plus 180 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Saeid Assim Lachin, 27, of Fullerton, has been charged with two felony counts of conspiracy to commit the crime of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of engaging in a speed contest, two misdemeanor counts of reckless driving, and two misdemeanor counts of driving on a suspended license.
Lachin was released on $0 bail. He faces a maximum sentence of 3 years and 8 months in state prison plus 450 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
“Orange County roads are not raceways designed to accommodate illegal street races of speeds reaching 160 miles per hour,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Street racing is irresponsible, it’s dangerous, and it shows a complete disregard for the lives of everyone involved including the participants, the spectators, and the innocent bystanders. No one driving on our roads should suddenly find themselves in the middle of what equates to a NASCAR race being raced by amateurs who are not trained or skilled enough to drive vehicles being pushed to their mechanical limits. These crimes will be prosecuted and they will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
“Street racing is a serious offense that impacts the Irvine community,” said Irvine Police Chief Mike Hamel. “We will continue to work in partnership with allied agencies, including the District Attorney’s office, to arrest and prosecute individuals who elect to engage in these reckless actions that endanger lives.”
The District Attorney’s Office and the Irvine Police Department participate in Strategic Traffic Enforcement Against Racing & Reckless Driving (STEARRD), a countywide law enforcement partnership to crack down on illegal street racing and street takeovers.
On January 31, 2020 Abdallah and Stuart are accused of meeting to discuss an illegal street race and then racing each other multiple times on the 241 and 261 Toll Roads through Irvine, Tustin, Lake Forest, and Foothill Ranch. Speeds in that race reached 160 mph.
On March 25, 2020, Abdallah and Waseeq are accused of meeting to discuss and illegal street race and then racing multiple times on the 241 and 261 Toll Roads. Rodriguez was the passenger in Waseeq’s vehicle and is accused of aiding and abetting the race.
On March 28, 2020 Abdallah and Lachin are accused of meeting to discuss an illegal street race and then racing multiple times on the 261 Toll Road.
On April 1, 2020 Abdallah, Rodriguez, Waseeq, and Lachin are accused of meeting to discuss an illegal street race and then racing multiple times on the 241 and 261 Toll Roads.
On May 27, 2020 Abdallah is accused of meeting with another unidentified driver to discuss an illegal street race and then racing multiple times on the 241 and 261 Toll Roads.
On May 30, 2020 Abdallah is accused of meeting with Rodriguez to discuss an illegal street race and then racing multiple times on the 261 Toll Road. Waseeq was the passenger of Rodriguez’ car and is accused of aiding and abetting the race.
Tagged with:
Conspiracy
Daniel Joaquin Rodriguez
Hamed Waseeq
Illegal Street Racing
Reckless Driving
Rushdan Mohammad Abdallah
Saeid Assim Lachin
Sean Lozai Stuart
Speed contest
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County, California District Attorney Todd Spitzer Unveils National Public Service Announcement Campaign to Combat Illegal Street Racing - Fast & Furious Actors Sung Kang and Cody Walker Help Warn Drivers of the Dangers of Illegal Street Racing, Urge Car Exhibitionists to Keep it on the Track
Press
Previously Convicted Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Illegal Street Racing Crash that Killed Innocent Driver
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Investigator and Recruit Charged with Conspiracy for Forging Documents to Falsely Claim Qualifications
