Additional Arrest Warrants Issued In $60 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Additional Arrest Warrants Issued In $60 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 18, 2020
Home
Press
Additional Arrest Warrants Issued In $60 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme
Case #Case #20CF0066, 20CF0067, 20CF0068, 20CF0069, 20CF0070
Five defendants charged with multiple felonies for preying on vulnerable substance abuse patients to bilk insurance company out of millions
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A joint effort by the California Department of Insurance and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has led to charges against five defendants in connection with a fraud ring allegedly designed to traffic vulnerable substance abuse patients from outside California into treatment facilities in Orange and Riverside counties and to bilk insurance companies out of millions of dollars.
Authorities charged Jeremy Ryan, 42, of Orange, Daniel Reaman, 41, of Mount Rainier, Maryland, Richard Roberts, 61, of Stockton, Reiner Nusbaum, 54, of San Clemente, and Michael Castanon, 56, of San Juan Capistrano, with multiple felony counts including insurance fraud, money laundering, and conspiracy.
The defendants face between 12 years, 8 months and 21 years and four months in prison for their alleged involvement in a scheme that resulted in $60 million in fraudulent billing and $11.7 million in insurance losses.
“With no regard for the substance abuse patients who wanted and needed treatment, this ring trafficked and used them to steal from insurance companies to line their own pockets,” said Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara. “Thanks to the hard work and determination of the Department of Insurance, and partnership with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, we have charged additional defendants in this ring.”
Authorities allege that Ryan, Reaman, and five previously charged defendants used mass media marketing campaigns to identify addicted “clients” from across the country who were seeking treatment. The conspirators and their witting employees then falsified clients’ health care insurance applications to circumvent California residency requirements and closed enrollment periods, employed a money-laundering scheme they devised to conceal their involvement in paying clients’ insurance premiums, and trafficked their clients into Southern California treatment facilities
The conspirators allegedly used their own nonprofit, Healthcare Relief Foundation, and exploited the unwitting non-profit, StopB4UStart, to conceal their involvement in funding their scheme.
“Treatment is one of the most fundamental stages in recovery for those who seek and need help. These schemes target and exploit vulnerable people at a time when they need help the most,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s office will continue to send a strong message against fraudsters and the deceptive tactics that exploit treatment services by prosecuting these cases to the fullest extent of the law.”
Authorities further allege they conspired with the owners and employees of over 17 substance treatment facilities, including facilities owned by defendants Roberts, Nusbaum and Castanon, to traffic clients into these facilities in order to collect thousands of dollars on their investment in unlawful, per-client, kickbacks.
Roberts, Nusbaum, and previously charged conspirators owned and operated RNR Recovery and Diamond Recovery, both Orange and Riverside County businesses offering inpatient detox treatment and residential sober living and assistance. Castanon owned and operated Luminance Recovery Center, a San Juan Capistrano based treatment facility.
Deputy District Attorney James Bilek of the Insurance Fraud Unit at the Orange County District Attorney’s Office is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Daniel Reaman
Insurance Fraud
Jeremy Ryan
Michael Castanon
Reiner Nusbaum
Richard Roberts
Sober living
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
Press
Former Westminster Police Officer Caught Drinking and Dancing at Stagecoach Music Festival while Claiming a Head Injury Prevented her from Working Charged with 15 Felonies for Committing Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fraud, Stealing More than $600,000 from Taxpayers
Press
Man Banned for Life from California’s Workers’ Compensation System for Past Felony Fraud Convictions Charged in Extensive Workers’ Compensation Fraud Scheme with San Diego Neurosurgeon, Two Others for Billing Nearly $100  Million in Fraudulent Fees
