Second-striker Charged with Hate Crime after Hurling Racial Epithet, Using Hatchet to Break Out Car Window - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Second-striker Charged with Hate Crime after Hurling Racial Epithet, Using Hatchet to Break Out Car Window
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 2, 2020
Home
Press
Second-striker Charged with Hate Crime after Hurling Racial Epithet, Using Hatchet to Break Out Car Window
Case # 20WF1371
Second-striker Charged with Hate Crime after Hurling Racial Epithet, Using Hatchet to Break Out Car Window While Victim Attempted to Drive Away
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Stanton man has been charged with a hate crime for using a hatchet to break out a car window while a man was driving away after an altercation at a park. The man hurled a racial slur for black people at a man playing basketball with his cousins and attempted to punch him before the victim and his fellow basketball players got in the car and attempted to leave.
Christopher Robargae, 33, of Stanton has been charged with one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon, one felony count of violation of civil rights with a violent injury, and a felony enhancement of a hate crime. Robarge has also been charged with one misdemeanor count of vandalism. He pleaded not guilty today.
Robargae has prior strikes for assault with a deadly weapon and burglary. He faces 38 years to life in prison if convicted on all counts.
On June 30, 2020, the victim and his cousins were playing basketball in a Westminster park when a man, later identified as Robargae, is accused of approaching the victim and called him a derogatory name for black people. The man took a swing at the victim, but missed.
The victim and his cousins left the basketball court and attempted to drive away, but Robarge is accused of following them and using a hatchet to smash the driver’s window.
“We have made it incredibly clear at every opportunity, including statements to the media, public appearances and in court filings that hate will be punished to the fullest extent of the law in Orange County. This defendant must not have gotten the message,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The full force of the District Attorney will be behind this case so that this defendant and any other person who tries to hate in the future by an act of violence will know Orange County is not a place to be a hater.”
Robargae is currently being held on $750,000 bail at the Intake Release Center.
Deputy District Attorney Matt Plunket of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault with a Deadly Weapon
Christopher Robargae
Hate Crime
Violation of Civil Rights
Violent Injury
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
