San Clemente Orthodontist Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting Boy as Young as Four Years Old, Possessing Child Pornography - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
San Clemente Orthodontist Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting Boy as Young as Four Years Old, Possessing Child Pornography
Author
Chase Healy
Published
December 5, 2024
Home
Press
San Clemente Orthodontist Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting Boy as Young as Four Years Old, Possessing Child Pornography
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 5, 2024
Case #: 24HF2035
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
San Clemente Orthodontist Charged with Multiple Felonies for
Molesting Boy as Young as Four Years Old, Possessing Child Pornography
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A San Clemente orthodontist has been charged with multiple felonies for molesting a young boy beginning when the boy was just four years old and possessing child pornography. The orthodontist, who features videos of numerous child patients competing in extreme professional sports, also maintains offices in San Diego and Mammoth.
Frank Joseph Mogavero, Jr., 63, of San Clemente, has been charged with five felony counts of committing a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 and one felony count of possession of child pornography. The child molestation is alleged to have occurred between January 2013 and July 2020 in Mono County and in Orange County.
The victim is alleged to have been four at the time of the first charged offense and between the ages of 11 and 12 years old at the time of the four subsequent charged offense.
The child is not a patient of Dr. Mogavero; however, to protect the identity of the victim of child molestation, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office is not disclosing the relationship between the boy and Dr. Mogavero.
In 2013, Mogavero is accused of touching the boy inappropriately when he was four years old in Mammoth, and again, repeatedly, in Orange County, between 2018 and 2020 when the boy was 11-12 years old.
Mogavero faces a maximum sentence of 16 years, 8 months in state prison if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held without bail.
He is currently scheduled to appear in court on December 9, 2024, for a bail review and preliminary hearing.
“The sexual abuse of an innocent child is something that should outrage our entire community and we will continue to do everything we can to continue to protect children from the monsters who seek to prey on them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Juliet Oliver of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Frank Joseph Mogavero
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
