La Habra High School Psychologist Charged With Having Sex With Student - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
La Habra High School Psychologist Charged With Having Sex With Student
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 24, 2019
Home
Press
La Habra High School Psychologist Charged With Having Sex With Student
La Habra High School Psychologist Charged With Having Sex With Student
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A school psychologist with Fullerton Unified School District has been charged with statutory rape for having sex with a minor student.
Kristen Lynn Boyle, 35, of Lake Forest, is accused of engaging in an illegal sexual relationship with a minor in a La Habra High School classroom at April 2018. Boyle, who worked as a school psychologist at La Habra High, has been on administrative leave since the relationship was discovered.
Boyle was arrested on September 20 by La Habra police following a lengthy investigation into a report that she had an inappropriate sexual relationship with a student on the school’s campus. Boyle has been charged with one felony count of statutory rape.
“Mental health professionals wield a tremendous amount of influence over their patients,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This betrayal of trust is even more egregious because she used her position to gain her victim’s trust and then exploited the therapist/patient relationship to prey on one of the very students she was entrusted with helping.”
If convicted, Boyle could face a maximum sentence of three years.
The lengthy investigation uncovered no additional victims at this time. Anyone with information is encouraged to call the La Habra Police Department at (562) 383-4300, or to utilize Tip411.
Tip411 is both a web-based and smart phone application, utilized by the La Habra Police Department, which allows community members to submit anonymous tips. Tips can be submitted through the internet at
www.tip411.com
and selecting “La Habra Police Department” or through downloading LHPD Tips on iOS or Android apps.
Deputy District Attorney Sarah Rahman is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Kristen Lynn Boyle
Minor
Statuatory Rape
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Dangerous Child Predator Recently Released from State Mental Hospital Once Again Required to Register as Sex Offender
Press
Male Nanny Charged With Additional Child Molestation Felonies for Abusing 17 Young Boys in His Care
Press
Male Nanny Charged With Additional Child Molestation Felonies for Abusing 12 Young Boys in His Care
