Huntington Beach Police Officer Charged with Impersonating Fellow Officer Online - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Huntington Beach Police Officer Charged with Impersonating Fellow Officer Online
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
March 19, 2021
Home
Press
Huntington Beach Police Officer Charged with Impersonating Fellow Officer Online
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 19, 2021
Case # 21CM03382
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Huntington Beach Police Officer Charged with Impersonating Fellow Officer Online
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Huntington Beach police officer has been charged with two misdemeanors for impersonating a fellow officer online.
Steven Tennant, 32, of Yorba Linda, has been charged with two misdemeanor counts of internet impersonation for the purpose of harming, intimidating, threatening, and defrauding. He faces a maximum sentence of two years in Orange County jail if convicted on all counts.
He is scheduled to be arraigned on May 5, 2021 at the Central Justice Center in Department C54.
On September 20, 2020 and September 26, 2020, Tennant is accused of posting a fellow officer’s photo and personal phone number on the website doublelist.com. The other officer was made aware of the ads when he started receiving texts from unknown numbers referencing the internet postings featuring his picture and personal cell phone number.
The ads were posted after the other officer had begun dating Tennant’s ex-girlfriend. The Huntington Beach Police Department initiated an investigation after the officer reported the harassment to a supervisor.
“Impersonating another individual on the internet is not a joke. It is a crime that could result in serious harm,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is not boys will be boys or cops will be cops behavior. It is curious and beyond disturbing that a sworn police officer would engage in such reckless behavior to endanger the safety of a fellow officer.”
Deputy District Attorney Nate Barrett of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Impersonation on Internet
Steven Tennant
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
