Stepmother who Beat Two-year-old Stepson into a Coma, Leaving Him Paralyzed with Severe Brain Damage Sentenced to Life in Prison - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Stepmother who Beat Two-year-old Stepson into a Coma, Leaving Him Paralyzed with Severe Brain Damage Sentenced to Life in Prison
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
August 16, 2024
Home
Press
Stepmother who Beat Two-year-old Stepson into a Coma, Leaving Him Paralyzed with Severe Brain Damage Sentenced to Life in Prison
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 16, 2024
Case #: 21WF0639
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Stepmother who Beat Two-year-old Stepson
into a Coma, Leaving Him Paralyzed with
Severe Brain Damage
Sentenced to
12 Years to Life Plus Seven Years
Woman attacked toddler to punish boy’s father for being gone
for long periods of time, talking about the mother of his son.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 24-year-old stepmother who beat her two-year-old stepson into a coma, leaving the toddler permanently paralyzed with severe brain damage because she was upset the boy’s father was gone for long periods of time and talked about the boy’s mother, was sentenced today to life in prison.
Noelia Ayala, 24, of Garden Grove, was convicted last month by a jury of one felony count of torture, one felony count of assault resulting in a comatose state or paralysis of a child under the age of 8, and two felony enhancements of causing great bodily injury on a child under five.
The boy’s father, 36-year-old Alberto Aragon, has been charged with one count of felony child abuse and endangerment, for delaying in providing medical care to his severely injured son. He faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison if convicted.
On August 23, 2019, paramedics were called to a Garden Grove home to treat a two-year-old boy who was vomiting blood and coming in and out of consciousness.
When the boy arrived at Children’s Hospital of Orange County (CHOC), doctors discovered the toddler had bleeding on his brain, extensive bruising on his face, arms, legs, back and genitals, apparent bite marks on his lips, and a cut to the back of his head. The bleeding on his brain was so severe that he had blood coming out of his ears and had to be rushed into emergency surgery where part of his skull was removed.
Despite Aragon’s assertions that his son had suffered the injuries as a result of a fall at a pool, doctors determined that the little boy’s injuries were in various stages of healing and had occurred over a period of time. Ayala and Aragon were arrested.
The boy, who is now seven, was left with permanent paralysis of his left side along with severe brain damage.
“The image of two-year-old’s Spider-Man sheet soaked in blood as a result of a stepmother’s beating is something that will never leave you,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This little boy was a happy, healthy two-year-old until he was left alone in the arms of a sadistic stepmother who used him as a punching bag to take out her anger over the issues in her relationship. The miracle workers at CHOC have rescued another defenseless child from the brink of death after being subjected to unspeakable violence by the very people who are supposed to protect these children. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will never stop fighting to protect those who cannot protect themselves.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Noelia Ayala
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
