Westminster Mother Charged with Murder for Drowning her 9-year-old Daughter, who was Confined to Wheelchair and Could Not Speak, in Bathtub - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Westminster Mother Charged with Murder for Drowning her 9-year-old Daughter, who was Confined to Wheelchair and Could Not Speak, in Bathtub
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
November 28, 2023
Home
Press
Westminster Mother Charged with Murder for Drowning her 9-year-old Daughter, who was Confined to Wheelchair and Could Not Speak, in Bathtub
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 28, 2023
Case # 23WF3501
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Westminster Mother Charged with Murder for Drowning her 9-year-old Daughter,
who was Confined to Wheelchair and Could Not Speak, in Bathtub
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 32-year-old mother has been charged with murder for drowning her 9-year-old daughter, who was confined to a wheelchair and could not speak, in a bathtub, leaving the girl’s body there for several days while she claims she attempted to commit suicide on more than one occasion.
Khadiyjah Aliyyah Pendergraph, 32, of Westminster, was arrested by police in a grocery store parking lot in Aliso Viejo on Friday, the same day her daughter’s body was discovered decomposing in the bathtub of a Westminster apartment they shared.
The girl’s father had called police Friday to report his daughter, 9-year-old Victoria, was missing and to request a welfare check on the little girl and her mother after receiving concerning messages from his ex-wife regarding their daughter. When he attempted to pick their daughter up as scheduled on Thanksgiving, the apartment door was locked and no one answered the door.
Pendergraph has been charged with one felony count of murder. She faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted.
“While families across America sat down to Thanksgiving dinner with their loved ones, this little disabled girl’s lifeless body was left to rot in a bathtub after being drowned by her own mother,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Words simply do not exist to express the utter heartbreak knowing this little girl could not even scream for help as her mother pushed her underwater and cut her life so tragically and so unnecessarily short.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dave Porter of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Khadiyjah Aliyyah Pendergraph
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
