Canadian Citizen Pleads Guilty to Illegally Voting in 2016 Primary, General Elections in Orange County - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Canadian Citizen Pleads Guilty to Illegally Voting in 2016 Primary, General Elections in Orange County
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
November 5, 2024
Home
Press
Canadian Citizen Pleads Guilty to Illegally Voting in 2016 Primary, General Elections in Orange County
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 5, 2024
Case #: 24NF2706
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Canadian Citizen Pleads Guilty to Illegally Voting in 2016 Primary, General Elections in Orange County
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Canadian citizen pleaded guilty Monday to three misdemeanors for casting votes in both the primary and general elections in 2016 after illegally registering to vote. The illegal voting was recently reported through the Orange County District Attorney’s Election Fraud Hotline.
In a negotiated plea deal with the government, Robert Soutar, 76, of Fullerton pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of violating the California Elections Code for not being entitled to vote in an election and one misdemeanor count of voter registration fraud. In exchange for his guilty plea, one felony count of perjury was dismissed.
As part of his guilty plea, Soutar agreed to remove himself from California’s voter registry, provide his DNA, and pay fines and fees. He was also sentenced to one year informal probation and order and be subject to search and seizure during his probation period.
Soutar is currently registered to vote with the Orange County Registrar of Voters, but there is no evidence at this time that he voted in the current election.
According to the California Elections Code, in order to vote a person must be registered as a voter by filling out and submitting an Affidavit of Registration which includes the voter’s name, residence, mailing address, date of birth, political party preference and a certification that the voter is a citizen of the United States. The affidavit must be signed under penalty of perjury.
Soutar, a Canadian citizen, is a legal permanent resident of the United States but is not a United States citizen and therefore is not eligible to vote. The Orange County Registrar of Voters does not independently verify the citizenship of people attempting to register to vote.
Despite being ineligible to vote due to his citizenship status, Soutar registered to vote in 2016 and illegally cast ballots in the 2016 primary and general elections.
“The privilege to vote is one of the most sacred rights we have as American citizens,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “I refuse to allow anyone to subvert our electoral process in anyway and interfere with the will of the voters who are making decisions on how they want their government run. Any allegation of electoral interference will be thoroughly investigated and if there is evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that a crime was committed, we will hold those responsible accountable for their actions.”
Anyone with information regarding any suspected election-related irregularities is asked to call the Orange County District Attorney’s Election Fraud Hotline at 657-707-4048 or by emailing 2024.elections@ocdapa.org
Deputy District Attorney Heather Heslep-Morrissey of the Special Prosecutions Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Robert Soutar
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
