Santa Ana Man Charged with Beating, Sexually Assaulting and Carjacking 75-Year-Old Woman in Tustin Church Parking Lot - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Santa Ana Man Charged with Beating, Sexually Assaulting and Carjacking 75-Year-Old Woman in Tustin Church Parking Lot
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 7, 2020
Home
Press
Santa Ana Man Charged with Beating, Sexually Assaulting and Carjacking 75-Year-Old Woman in Tustin Church Parking Lot
Case # 20CF0967
Santa Ana Man Charged with Beating, Sexually Assaulting and Carjacking 75-Year-Old Woman in Tustin Church Parking Lot
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 24-year-old man has been charged with attempted murder for beating a 75-year-old homeless woman unconscious and sexually assaulting her in the parking lot of a Tustin church on April 30, 2020. After the attack he dragged the badly beaten woman into nearby bushes and stole her car.
The victim was still unconscious when she was discovered the following morning. Fernando Valdovinos, 24, of Santa Ana, was arrested by Tustin police on May 2, 2020 after they saw him riding in the victim’s car.
Valdovinos has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder, one felony count of sexual penetration by foreign object and force, one felony count of attempted forcible rape, and one felony count of carjacking.
Valdovinos has also been charged with two felony enhancements of causing great bodily injury on an elder, one felony enhancement of attempted premeditated murder, and one felony enhancement of inflicting great bodily injury during the commission of certain sex offenses.
He faces life in prison if convicted on all counts. Valdovinos is scheduled to be arraigned on May 20, 2020 in CJ1 and is being held without bail at the Orange County Jail.
“The depravity with which this heinous attack was carried out demonstrates just how vulnerable the homeless population – and especially homeless women – is to violence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is committed to getting justice for this woman who shouldn’t have been living on the streets and couldn’t fend for herself. No one should be forced to endure that kind of viciousness.”
Deputy District Attorney Mena Guirguis is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Beating
Bodily Injury Elder
Carjacking
Fernando Valdovinos
Rape
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
