Man Charged with Murder, Lying in Wait for Beating Ex-wife to Death with Tire Iron - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Murder, Lying in Wait for Beating Ex-wife to Death with Tire Iron
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
March 23, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Murder, Lying in Wait for Beating Ex-wife to Death with Tire Iron
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 23, 2021
Case # 21HF0413
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Charged with Murder, Lying in Wait for Beating Ex-wife to Death with Tire Iron
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Lake Forest man has been charged with murder for beating his ex-wife to death with a tire iron after she arrived at her job as a nanny in Irvine. The woman died three weeks after the attack.
Omar Velazquezhuar, 45, of Lake Forest, has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of lying in wait to commit murder. The charges make Velazquezhuar eligible for the death penalty.
On February 26, 2021, Velazquezhuar is accused of attacking Dora Maria Rosas Moreno, 48, of Santa Ana, repeatedly in the head with a tire iron after she parked her car to go to her job as a nanny. Velazquezhuar fled the scene, leaving Moreno in critical condition.
Irvine police captured and arrested Velazquezhuar in the attack. On March 1, 2021, prosecutors charged Velazquezhuar with attempted murder.
Moreno died from her injuries on March 17, 2021 and charges were upgraded to murder. Velazquezhuar and Moreno have two adult children together.
Velazquezhuar is scheduled to be arraigned on April 16, 2021 in CJ1. He is currently being held without bail.
“Our hearts go out to the loved ones of Ms. Moreno as they grapple with the loss of a mother, friend, and caregiver,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is an unspeakable act of violence that cost an innocent woman her life. While the heartbreak and pain caused by this depraved act will never go away, we will ensure justice is carried out.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Geller of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Assault with a Deadly Weapon
Battery
Lying in Wait to Commit Murder
Murder
nanny
Omar Velazquezhuar
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
