Authorities Seeking Public’s Help in Identifying Potential Additional Victims of Man Charged With Child Pornography for Secretly Placing Phone in Fullerton Women’s Restroom, Recording 12-year-old Girl; Parents of 12-year-old subdued suspect until police arrived - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Authorities Seeking Public’s Help in Identifying Potential Additional Victims of Man Charged With Child Pornography for Secretly Placing Phone in Fullerton Women’s Restroom, Recording 12-year-old Girl;  Parents of 12-year-old subdued suspect until police arrived
Author
Chase Healy
Published
July 27, 2023
Home
Press
Authorities Seeking Public’s Help in Identifying Potential Additional Victims of Man Charged With Child Pornography for Secretly Placing Phone in Fullerton Women’s Restroom, Recording 12-year-old Girl;  Parents of 12-year-old subdued suspect until police arrived
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 27, 2023
Case #: 23NF1776
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Jacob Anthony Arriola
Authorities Seeking Public’s Help in Identifying Potential Additional Victims of Man Charged With Child Pornography for Secretly Placing Phone in Fullerton Women’s Restroom, Recording 12-year-old Girl
Parents of 12-year-old subdued suspect until police arrived.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional victims of a man charged with possessing child pornography and secretly putting a phone equipped with a camera inside a women’s restroom at a park in Fullerton. He is also accused of following a 12-year-old girl inside the restroom and recording her.
Jacob Anthony Arriola, 33, of Fullerton, has been charged with one felony count of possession of child pornography and one misdemeanor count each of using a concealed recording device to record someone without their consent, using a minor in the sale or distribution of obscene matter or production of pornography, placing a concealed camera to secretly videotape someone in partial dress and peeping.
Arriola has pled not guilty. He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison if convicted of all counts. He remains in custody in the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange in lieu of $20,000 bail.
On July 23, 2023. Arriola is accused of following a 12-year-old girl into a women’s restroom at a park in Fullerton and recording the girl. When she noticed Arriola, she left the restroom and informed her parents what had occurred. The parents confronted Arriola and held him down until police arrived and arrested him. Arriola has been in custody since his arrest.
Following Arriola’s arrest, a wireless camera was found hidden in the restroom. Arriola also is accused of having child pornography on his devices.
“Pedophiles will stop at nothing to satiate their own indulgences – even brazenly recording a young girl at public restroom during the day, only a short distance away from parents. Thankfully, the girl immediately reported what had happened and adults intervened,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Protecting our children is paramount to me and to our community and we will do everything we can to hold those accountable who seek to exploit and manipulate kids.”
Authorities believe there may be additional victims. Anyone with information is asked to call Fullerton Police Detective
egarcia@fullertonpd.org
or 714-738-6759.
Deputy District Attorney Jeff Boyd of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting the case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Jacob Anthony Arriola
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
