Man Charged with Hate Crime for Defacing Costa Mesa Mural Celebrating Strong Latina Women with White Supremacy Graffiti - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Defacing Costa Mesa Mural Celebrating Strong Latina Women with White Supremacy Graffiti
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 31, 2023
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Defacing Costa Mesa Mural Celebrating Strong Latina Women with White Supremacy Graffiti
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 31, 2023
Case # 23WF0382
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Defacing Costa Mesa Mural Celebrating Strong Latina Women with White Supremacy Graffiti
SANTA ANA, Calif.
– A 27-year-old man has been charged with a hate crime for spray painting white supremacy graffiti over a Costa Mesa mural celebrating influential Latinas from Orange County.
Daniel Hotte, 27, of Dana Point, is facing one felony count of vandalism exceeding $400 and one felony enhancement of a hate crime. He faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Hotte pleaded not guilty today and is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $20,000 bail.
On Monday, October 31, 2022, at approximately 2:30 p.m., Costa Mesa police were called to the 3000 block of Killybrooke near Baker Street regarding the defacing of the Las Poderosas mural, a public mural created in 2020 to honor eight poderosas – or strong women. Several witnesses reported seeing a man scratching out several of the women’s names and spray painting “white power” and “PEN1 737,” a reference to Public Enemy Number 1, a documented white supremacist gang.
The vandalism suspect was later identified by police as 27-year-old Daniel Hotte of Dana Point.
Hotte was arrested Monday by Costa Mesa police at the Harbor Justice Center when he appeared on an unrelated criminal matter.
“Art is one of the many beautiful ways we tell the story of who we are and where we came from,” said Orange County District Attorney’s Office. “It is heartbreaking to see the stories of such powerful women who overcame incredible obstacles to succeed be defaced with such hate. Ugly words will never cover up the achievements of these amazing women, including Frances Muñoz, a former Orange County Superior Court judge who served as the first Latina trial judge in California. We will continue to hold haters accountable and send a strong message that there is no room for hate here in Orange County – or anywhere.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Cliff Page of the Gangs/TARGET Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Daniel Hotte
Hate Crime
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
