Santa Ana Mother Charged With Beating Her 5-Week-Old Son, Leaving Infant With Fractured Skull, 16 Broken Bones - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Santa Ana Mother Charged With Beating Her 5-Week-Old Son, Leaving Infant With Fractured Skull, 16 Broken Bones
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
May 16, 2024
Home
Press
Santa Ana Mother Charged With Beating Her 5-Week-Old Son, Leaving Infant With Fractured Skull, 16 Broken Bones
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 16, 2024
Case #: 24CF1274
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Santa Ana Mother Charged With Beating Her 5-Week-Old Son,
Leaving Infant With Fractured Skull, 16 Broken Bones
Father Charged with Being an Accessory After the Fact
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 34-year-old mother has been charged with repeatedly beating her 5-week-old baby when he refused to stop crying, leaving the infant with 16 broken bones, including a skull fracture, a fractured knee, a fractured elbow, broken ribs and a fractured arm. The baby’s father has been charged with accessory after the fact for trying to cover up his wife’s abuse of their son.
Mirian Jimenez-Olivera, 34, of Santa Ana, was charged with 11 felony counts of child abuse. She faces a maximum sentence of 42 years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Edgar Busto-Rodriguez, 35, of Santa Ana, was charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact. He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison.
The baby’s parents have pleaded not guilty and are being held in custody in lieu of $1 million bond each.
Jimenez-Olivera is accused of punching her newborn baby in the ribs, shoulder, and arms when he cried on multiple occasions and roughly pulling his leg when she changed him. She is accused of assaulting her baby since he was 2 weeks old.
Busto-Rodriguez is accused of trying to cover up the abuse by lying to police about how his infant son was injured.
On May 13, 2024, the 5-week-old baby was brought to Children’s Hospital of Orange County (CHOC) in Orange because he wasn’t moving his left arm. Doctors found the baby had 16 broken bones, including a fractured knee, elbow, finger and ribs in two separate locations. The baby also had a skull fracture.
“A mother’s arms should be the safest place for a newborn, fiercely protecting him from the world, but for little Esteban his mother’s arms were the weapons of violence which helped systematically break his little bones into tiny pieces because he wouldn’t stop doing what every newborn does — cry,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “No child should be brought into this world and be subjected to unimaginable pain – and then be left to suffer in silence, not knowing when the next time his mother would lash out in anger and break another rib or snap another bone. We are so grateful to the miracle workers at CHOC who rescued this defenseless baby from the living hell he was born into.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Mirian Jimenez-Olivera
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
