Irvine Man Sentenced to 26 years to Life for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Irvine Man Sentenced to 26 years to Life for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 30, 2020
Home
Press
Irvine Man Sentenced to 26 years to Life for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
Case # #15HF0776
Irvine Man Sentenced to 26 years to Life for Hitting Wife’s Lover
with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Irvine man was sentenced today to the maximum sentence of 26 years to life in state prison for the first degree murder of his estranged wife’s lover.  The defendant was also convicted of stabbing the victim’s female friend before fleeing the crime scene.
Hongli Sun, 43, of Irvine, was convicted on October 1, 2020 of one felony count of first-degree murder with a felony enhancement for using a deadly weapon, and one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon with a felony enhancement of inflicting great bodily injury.
On July 18, 2015, Sun drove to Dr. Xuan Liu’s dental office on Barranca Parkway in Irvine and sat in his Mercedes waiting for Liu to return.  Sun discovered months before that Liu was having an affair with Sun’s wife.
Sun intentionally drove into Liu in the parking lot and then stabbed Liu multiple times.  The 54-year-old dentist died at the scene. Sun also stabbed a women who attempted to intervene in the attack.
“The cold, calculated choice to murder another human being deserves the harshest punishment,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Violence is never the answer, especially when it comes to matters of the heart.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Hit and Run
Hongli Sun
Murder
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
