Senator Thomas J. Umberg and Southern California District Attorneys Introduce Legislation to Protect People from Price Gouging - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Senator Thomas J. Umberg and Southern California District Attorneys Introduce Legislation to Protect People from Price Gouging
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 7, 2020
Home
Press
Senator Thomas J. Umberg and Southern California District Attorneys Introduce Legislation to Protect People from Price Gouging
Senator Thomas J. Umberg and Southern California District Attorneys Introduce Legislation to Protect People from Price Gouging During State of Emergency
Santa Ana, Calif. – Today,
Senator Thomas J. Umberg (D-Santa Ana)
debuted new legislation, in concert with
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer
, and
San Diego District Attorney Summer Stephan
, to combat price gouging in the State of California during a declared state of emergency. In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, our state has seen countless examples of unscrupulous individuals using the crisis as an opportunity to turn a profit on essential goods and services. Senate Bill 1196 (SB 1196) will tighten California law to assist law enforcement officials in prosecuting instances of price gouging that are committed by new sellers during an emergency.
“We are committed to protect Californians from those that prey on our community during the trying times of national or global emergencies. We will continue to use all of the tools at our disposal to prevent price gouging during this, and any future disaster” said
Senator Umberg
. “There are brave men and women in the health and public safety sectors of our community whose lives are on the line every day. It is immoral and unacceptable to allow some to take advantage of this crisis when so many are fighting to help.”
Currently, under
California Penal Code Section 396
, price gouging is illegal and punishable by law during a declared state of emergency. However, the code hasn’t been revisited since 1992, and it’s time to bring it up to speed to modern-day standards and to reflect current market technologies. For example, Penal Code Section 396 dictates that a seller has committed price gouging when they charge “a price of more than 10 percent greater than the price charged by that person for those goods or services immediately prior to the proclamation or declaration or emergency.” This section clearly prevents established sellers of specified goods from committing price gouging, but is silent to new sellers in a market place.
“Exploiting the public’s fear and panic is not a defense to engaging in criminal activity,” said
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer
. “Existing law left a loophole that allowed opportunists to take advantage of a crisis and overcharge customers for a product just because they had never sold that product before. This important legislation closes that loophole and ensures that those who shamelessly exploit people’s vulnerabilities during a time of emergency are prosecuted. In this case we do not reward ‘entrepreneurship.'”
“Emergencies like the COVID-19 pandemic bring out the best in most Californians, but some businesses take advantage of emergency conditions to gouge consumers with extreme prices for essential goods and services,”
San Diego District Attorney Summer Stephan
said. “This bill will help close loopholes that allow greedy actors to escape accountability and ensure that California businesses don’t charge abusive prices for health and consumer essentials during this national emergency.”
Senate Bill 1196 (SB 1196) will be introduced when the legislature reconvenes.
To contact Senator Umberg’s District Office regarding any incidents of recent price gouging, please call (714) 558-3785.
To file a complaint with the Consumer Protection Unit of the Orange County District Attorney, visit this
link
.
Tagged with:
COVID-19
Media statement
Price Gouging
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Twelve Mentally Ill Offenders, including Murder Defendant, to Be Released Back into Our Communities Unsupervised in Next Two Months  If County of Orange Fails to Find Treatment Beds  Two serious offenders could be released back into Orange County as early as Friday.
COVID-19
Press
Victim and Survivors COVID-19 Community Resource List
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assisting Federal, State Efforts to Hold Rioters Responsible for Siege on U.S. Capitol
