CAPTURED: THE FIRST OF ORANGE COUNTY’S TOP TEN MOST WANTED CRIMINALS - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
CAPTURED: THE FIRST OF ORANGE COUNTY’S TOP TEN MOST WANTED CRIMINALS
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 19, 2005
Home
Press
CAPTURED: THE FIRST OF ORANGE COUNTY’S TOP TEN MOST WANTED CRIMINALS
For Immediate Release
October 19th, 2005
Contact:
Mark Macaulay
Media Relations Spokesperson
(714) 347-8405 Office
(714) 323-4486 Cell
CAPTURED: THE FIRST OF ORANGE COUNTY’S TOP TEN MOST WANTED CRIMINALS
Santa Ana – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA) and the Orange Police Department announced the capture of James Lawrence Diamond who had been wanted on seven counts of a lewd act upon a child since September 1997. Diamond was featured on the OCDA’s new Ten Most Wanted list. The defendant was apprehended in Pahrump, Nevada on September 30, 2005, before the press coverage, but the OCDA had been receiving active, fresh tips as a result. He will be brought back to Orange County later this week for prosecution. If convicted on all charges the defendant is facing up to 20 years in state prison
I
n July of 1997, defendant Diamond babysat a
then 5-year-old female relative three times a week.
The victim during a routine examination disclosed to the school nurse that the defendant inappropriately touched her, orally copulated her, and made the victim orally copulate the defendant. The victim had said that the defendant had shown her pornographic tapes.
The defendant was in the process of shredding the pornographic tapes when the police went to his house.
On September 22, 1997, an Orange Police detective told him to come to the Orange Police Department.
The defendant had driven down and was waiting in the lobby.
When the detective came back, the defendant was gone.
When the police went to make contact with Diamond, they discovered that he had loaded a U-Haul and fled.
The trail was cold soon there after.
“It was just a matter of time before Mr. Diamond was captured,” said Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “We will be picking a very worthy candidate to replace Mr. Diamond on the Orange County District Attorney’s Top Ten list and we will let you know when that happens. We need to keep publicizing these fugitives. We urge the public to please keep logging on and please keep looking.”
“We view this as a win for the public,” said Captain Steven Ames of the Orange Police Department. “The public was responsible for the increase in information regarding this case. Law enforcement cannot do our job without assistance from the public.”
The Ten Most Wanted list was introduced as part of a new OCDA website to help fight crime. It deputizes the public to help find some of the worst criminal offenders who have eluded capture.
The list will be updated regularly with information about this and other cases.
To access the Orange County District Attorney’s website go to
www.orangecountyda.com
or
www.orangecountydistrictattorney.com
.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
