Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Releases Statement on the Role of a Prosecutor and the Guiding Principles for the - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
10 min read
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Releases Statement on the Role of a Prosecutor and the Guiding Principles for the
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 10, 2021
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Releases Statement on the Role of a Prosecutor and the Guiding Principles for the
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 10, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Releases Statement
on the Role of a Prosecutor and the Guiding Principles
for the Orange County District Attorney’s Office
District Attorney Spitzer calls on all elected California District Attorneys to have a conversation
about addressing systemic racism in the criminal justice system and ending mass incarceration
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer today released a series of
guiding principles
for the Orange County District Attorney’s Office regarding the role of
the prosecutor in our society
.
In releasing these
policy positions and initiatives
, District Attorney Spitzer is calling on all elected California district attorneys to have a conversation about how prosecutors can address systemic racism in the criminal justice system and end mass incarceration.
“We as a society have engaged in systemic mass incarceration. As a prosecutor, I will stop it. We as a society have prosecuted people of color differently. As a prosecutor, I will stop it,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We cannot fix a systematic problem without a systematic approach. That approach must be thoughtful, thorough, and include different perspectives, different experiences, and different ideas. Justice is not evidenced by the longest sentence; justice is what is best for the individual, the victim, and society as a whole.”
District Attorney Spitzer’s
policy positions and initiatives
include:
End mass incarceration
Establish a Conviction Integrity Unit
Establish Recidivism Reduction Units that address an individual’s chances for success
Support mental health diversion when practical to address underlying issues with programming
Support dual 911 dispatch with mental health response and training to 911 calls seeking psychiatric assistance
Support policies that prevent law enforcement agencies from investigating their own officer-involved shootings
Ban the use of carotid holds by law enforcement within the Orange County District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation and support the ban of carotid holds across all District Attorney Investigation Bureaus
Response to “Defund the Police” is to require local jurisdictions to support and advocate for sufficient community resources that support the above principles and initiatives that reduce recidivism and provide equal opportunities for all.
From
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer’s The Role of a Prosecutor
:
“Seeking justice means we must constantly ask ourselves whether the system in which we hold so much power is working in a fair way for all people, from all backgrounds, experiences and beliefs, and who may or may not be citizens of this country. Where the system fails to be fair, we fail to be fair unless we improve the system. And where we have failed, we must acknowledge those failures as important steps in improving our own work, and the system of justice in which we do that work.”
District Attorney Spitzer’s The Role of a Prosecutor
and the
Role of the Orange County District Attorney in our Society: Policy Positions and Promotion of Initiatives
can be found on
www.orangecountyda.org
Tagged with:
Role of the prosecutor
Statment
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
