Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder in Beating Death of 27-Year-Old Woman with Fire Extinguisher in Laguna Beach - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder in Beating Death of 27-Year-Old Woman with Fire Extinguisher in Laguna Beach
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
November 17, 2023
Home
Press
Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder in Beating Death of 27-Year-Old Woman with Fire Extinguisher in Laguna Beach
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 17, 2023
Case #: 23CF3195
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder in Beating Death of
27-Year-Old Woman with Fire Extinguisher in Laguna Beach
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 26-year-old bartender has been charged with special circumstances murder for beating a 27-year-old woman to death with a fire extinguisher and leaving her body with a sandbag covering her head in a nearby construction site.
Dino Rojas-Moreno, 26, of Laguna Hills, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony enhancement of special circumstances of committing the murder in the commission of a kidnapping, and one felony enhancement for the personal use of a weapon, a fire extinguisher.
Rojas-Moreno is eligible for the death penalty if convicted.
On November 12, 2023, at about 8:20 am, the body of 27-year-old Tatum Goodwin was discovered by a construction worker at a construction site in the 100 block of S. Coast Highway in Laguna Beach. Her body was under a chain link fence on a construction site and a sandbag had been placed on her head.
Rojas-Moreno is accused of approaching Goodwin in a nearby parking lot around 1 a.m. that morning and assaulting her near her parked car.  Rojas-Moreno then forcefully dragged her to the rear of the parking lot, down a short alley, and to a secluded area behind a movie theatre that was under construction.  Rojas-Moreno is then accused of beating Goodwin to death with a fire extinguisher.  Goodwin was found several hours later.
It is unclear whether Goodwin had any prior relationship with Rojas-Moreno. Rojas-Moreno failed to show up to work the day of the murder after claiming he had been jumped by several men in Santa Ana.
Rojas-Moreno is currently being held without bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned at on November 20, 2023 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C5.
“The loss of an innocent life is a travesty for the entire community,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is heartbreaking that a young woman with her entire future ahead of her had her life ended in such a brutal way and then discarded like her life never matter. She mattered, and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office is committed to ensuring justice is served.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jeff Moore of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Dino Rojas-Moreno
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 6 =
