Man Charged with Hate Crime for Throwing Rocks at an Asian Woman, 6-year-old Child - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Throwing Rocks at an Asian Woman, 6-year-old Child
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
April 5, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Throwing Rocks at an Asian Woman, 6-year-old Child
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 5, 2021
Case # 21NF1136
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Throwing Rocks at an Asian Woman, 6-year-old Child
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Fullerton man has been charged with a hate crime for throwing rocks at an Asian woman and her six-year-old son as they drove down a Fullerton street, cracking the woman’s windshield. The man later told police Koreans in the area were trying to control him.
Roger Janke, 28, of Fullerton has been charged with one felony count of violation of civil rights, one felony count of vandalism, one misdemeanor count of throwing a substance at a vehicle, and one felony hate crime enhancement.
Janke faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison and six months in the Orange County Jail. He has pled not guilty.
He is currently being held on $51,500 bail at the Theo Lacy Facility.
On Wednesday, March 31, 2021, a 38-year-old woman was driving a Tesla with her six-year-old son in the vehicle near Hughes Drive and Bastanchury Road in Fullerton just after 1 p.m. Janke is accused of throwing two rocks at the passing vehicle, damaging her bumper and cracking her windshield.
The woman drove to a nearby park and called 911.
“I refuse to tolerate hate in Orange County,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “A woman and her child should be able to drive down the street without worrying about being attacked because of the color of their skin. Our commitment to continuing to prosecute hate crimes to the fullest extent of the law is sending a strong message to all the haters out there – there is no room for hate here – or anywhere.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Hate Crime
Roger Janke
Violation of Civil Rights
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
