Former Girls’ Basketball Coach Sentenced to 150 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Four Young Athletes - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Girls’ Basketball Coach Sentenced to 150 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Four Young Athletes
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
September 6, 2023
Home
Press
Former Girls’ Basketball Coach Sentenced to 150 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Four Young Athletes
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 6, 2023
Case #: 19HF0488
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Girls’ Basketball Coach Sentenced to 150 Years to Life
for
Sexually Assaulting Four Young Athletes
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former girls’ high school and club basketball coach was sentenced today to 150 years to life for sexually assaulting four young girls he coached. One girl testified that in addition to being sexually assaulted, the defendant had her run topless during private practices.  Another testified that she was promised more playing time in exchange for engaging in sex acts. His victims ranged in age between 11 and 17 years old.
A jury found Carlos Francisco Juarez, 48, of Costa Mesa, guilty in July of 10 felony counts of lewd act upon a child under 14, seven felony counts of lewd act upon a child and two felony counts each of oral copulation of a minor under the age of 16 and sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor.
Juarez primarily coached for club basketball teams, including So Cal Swoosh and O.C. Mustangs, but also worked at Aliso Niguel, Costa Mesa, Mater Dei, and Tustin high schools. He is accused of coaching each of his four victims at some point between 2005 and 2010.
In 2005, one victim who was 11 years old at the time took private lessons from Juarez at a gym in Tustin where Juarez had the girl practice topless after he initially sought to have her remove all her clothes. He is also accused of sexually assaulting the girl after a practice and then giving her an envelope of money.
Juarez was convicted of sexually assaulting three more of his young players, including moving into the home of a 13-year-old girl where he continued to engage in repeated sexual abuse. The abuse continued for more than four years.
Juarez was convicted of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl he was also coaching during private basketball lessons in 2008, and forcing a 13-year-old basketball player to perform a sex act on him in exchange for the promise of becoming a starter.
“This coach was in a position of trust and authority over these young girls and he took advantage of them. Youth sports should be a safe environment where neither parents nor athletes should have to worry about children being targeted by a sexual predator,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As a result of the bravery of these young victims to speak out, another child molester is behind bars for the rest of his life and will no longer be allowed to prey on innocent children.”
Deputy District Attorney Raquel Cooper of the Sexual Assault Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Carlos Francisco Juarez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Girls’ Basketball Coach Found Guilty of Sexually Assaulting Four Young Athletes; Carlos Francisco Juarez faces a maximum sentence of 150 years to life
