Supervisor Don Wagner, DA Todd Spitzer and the Leos Family Continue the Hunt to put 6-year-old Aiden Leos’ Killer Behind Bars - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Supervisor Don Wagner, DA Todd Spitzer and the Leos Family Continue the Hunt to put 6-year-old Aiden Leos’ Killer Behind Bars
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 27, 2021
Home
Press
Supervisor Don Wagner, DA Todd Spitzer and the Leos Family Continue the Hunt to put 6-year-old Aiden Leos’ Killer Behind Bars
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 27, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Supervisor Don Wagner, District Attorney Todd Spitzer and the Leos Family Continue the Hunt to put 6-year-old Aiden Leos’ Killer Behind Bars
(Orange, California) – Orange County Supervisor Don Wagner and Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer held a press conference today urging the public come forward with information about the people responsible for shooting 6-year-old Aiden Leos to death while his mother drove him to kindergarten last Friday.
Rewards can work to bring justice to victims. Supervisor Wagner was the first to match the family’s reward of $50,000, which spurred action from the Board of Supervisors and our community to add to the reward money. A reward for information leading to the capture and conviction of Aiden’s killer is now at $310,000.
Anyone driving northbound on the 55 freeway between the 22 freeway and Chapman Avenue between 7:55 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. on Friday, May 21, 2021 is asked to contact the California Highway Patrol with any tips or videos: santaanatipline@chp.ca.gov or call 800-Tell-CHP.
“This crime ripped our community apart and we are putting it back together as we collectively seek justice for Aiden. If you are out there and know something, please come forward by contacting the CHP. While there is a reward, we encourage the suspects to step forward because it is the right thing to do,” said Supervisor Wagner.
Aiden’s 16-year-old sister Alexis Cloonan is a remarkable young woman who wants justice served for her brother. “Thank you for all the support, on behalf of my mother. We can have a funeral as beautiful as he is; we are so grateful for the outpouring of love and support. If you have any information, please step forward, my brother deserves justice,” said Cloonan.
District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued a strong message to Aiden’s killer and the getaway driver: “You have 24 hours to turn yourself in. I am running out of patience. I’ve been putting people behind bars for over 32 years and we will get justice for the murder of your [Alexis’] brother. We are not supposed to bury our children.”
Billy Skeffington, who owns Watson’s Soda Fountain where today’s press conference was held, has helped raise more than $50,000 to find Aiden’s killer. “Our hearts go out to the family; we are getting phone calls from the community for more money. Please whoever did this…turn yourself in. We want this person off the streets so this doesn’t happen to anyone else,” said Skeffington. Mario Marovic, the owner of Lounge Group, has also pledged money towards putting the suspects behind bars.
###
Tagged with:
Marcus Anthony Eriz
Media Advisory
Murder
Road Rage
Wynne Lee
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
Costa Mesa Woman Pleads Guilty to Being an Accessory after the Fact in Murder of 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
