62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Author
Chase Healy
Published
February 19, 2026
Home
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 19, 2026
Case #: 26HF0400
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder
for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A 62-year-old man has been charged with murder for stabbing his estranged wife to death after he believed she had a date with another man during the Valentine’s Day weekend.
On Saturday, February 14, 2026, at around 6:30 a.m., a woman called the Orange County Sheriff’s Department to report that her brother-in-law had called her to tell her that he had killed his wife with a knife at their San Juan Capistrano home.
When Sheriff’s deputies arrived at the home, they found a man later identified as Stephen Anthony Demora, 62, of San Juan Capistrano, walking out of the home with blood on his face and body. Deputies found Demora’s wife of thirty years, Debora Demora, 59, of San Juan Capistrano, lying in a pool of blood on the garage floor. She had been stabbed to death. The couple had been estranged for the last 10 years but continued to live in the home together.
Stephen Demora was taken to a local hospital where he was treated for self-inflicted injuries.
Demora has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of personal use of a weapon, a knife. He faces a maximum sentence of 26 years to life if convicted on all charges.
“This is a tragedy on so many levels that a relationship that stretched over so many decades could erupt in such brutality on a day meant to celebrate love,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Violence of any kind against anyone will not be tolerated and those who engage in violence will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Demora is currently being held in the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1 million bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned at the Harbor Justice Center in Newport Beach on March 26, 2026, in Department H2.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Homicide
Stephen Anthony Demora
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
Press
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
