Placentia Man Charged with Attempted Murder, Robbery, and Assault in Connection with Buena Park, Fullerton Beatings - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Placentia Man Charged with Attempted Murder, Robbery, and Assault in Connection with Buena Park, Fullerton Beatings
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 24, 2019
Home
Press
Placentia Man Charged with Attempted Murder, Robbery, and Assault in Connection with Buena Park, Fullerton Beatings
Case # 19NF1502
Attacks left one person unconscious, two others with serious injuries
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Placentia man has been charged with attempted murder and five other felonies for trying to stomp a man to death at a Buena Park bus stop, stealing his bicycle, and attacking another man at the OCTA Bus Depot in Fullerton in a similar attack less than two hours later. He also attacked a Good Samaritan who attempted to stop one of the assaults.
Kenneth Alexander Heimlich III, 33 of Placentia, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder, two felony counts of 2nd degree robbery, three felony counts of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury, and one felony count of battery with serious bodily injury. Heimlich has also been charged with one misdemeanor count of battery on an officer, along with enhancements for rendering one of his victims comatose as a result of the brain injury he inflicted on him, and great bodily injury.
He faces a maximum sentence of 18 years, 8 months in state prison and one year in the county jail. He is currently being held on $500,000 bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on July 8, 2019 in Department N12.
At approximately 8:15 a.m. on June 12, Buena Park police officers responded to a bus stop at Beach Boulevard and Orangethorpe Avenue regarding an assault and found an unconscious 65-year-old man with serious head injuries.
The victim and his attacker had been riding on the same bus when they exited and they began arguing.
Witnesses told officers the victim had been pushed to the ground and into the street by a man, later identified as Heimlich, who then proceeded to kick and stomp the victim repeatedly in the head, leaving him unconscious. Heimlich is accused of stealing the unconscious victim’s bicycle and fleeing eastbound on Orangethorpe.
The attack was captured on surveillance video, which was later released on social media by Buena Park police in an attempt to identify the suspect.
At approximately 10 a.m. on June 12, Fullerton police responded to a report of an assault at the OCTA Bus Depot at 123 E. Santa Fe, where they made contact with a man later identified as Kenneth Heimlich III.
Initial investigation by police officers indicated Heimlich was involved in a verbal argument with a 56-year-old man at the bus depot. Heimlich began punching and kicking the man, causing him to fall on the ground.
A 17-year-old at the bus stop attempted to stop the assault, and was also attacked by Heimlich. Heimlich removed the 56-year-old victim’s wallet from his pants and stole $47. Officers arrived on scene and arrested Heimlich.
During the investigation, a Fullerton Police Detective recognized Heimlich as possibly being involved in the assault that occurred in Buena Park. Buena Park Police Detectives were able to positively identify Heimlich as being the man seen in the video assaulting the 65-year-old male in Buena Park just hours before the Fullerton assault.
Deputy District Attorney Kimberly Wah is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Attempted
Battery
Kenneth Alexander Heimlich III
Robbery
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
20-year-old Los Angeles Man Will be Charged with Special Circumstance Murders in 7-Eleven Robbery and Murder Spree that Left at Least Three Dead across Several Southern California Counties
