69-year-old Man Charged with Raping 93-year-old Nonverbal Bedridden Woman who Suffers from Dementia - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
69-year-old Man Charged with Raping 93-year-old Nonverbal Bedridden Woman who Suffers from Dementia
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
February 7, 2025
Home
Press
69-year-old Man Charged with Raping 93-year-old Nonverbal Bedridden Woman who Suffers from Dementia
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 7, 2025
Case #: 25CF0405
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
69-year-old Man Charged with Raping
93-year-old Nonverbal Bedridden Woman who Suffers from Dementia
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 69-year-old caretaker has been charged with raping a bedridden 93-year-old woman who is nonverbal and suffers from dementia while he was supposed to be caring for her.
Phuong Hoang Khong, 69, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of rape by force, one felony count of sexual penetration by a foreign object by force, one felony count of forcible oral copulation, and one felony count of elder abuse.
He faces a maximum sentence of 75 years to life plus four years if convicted on all counts.
On the morning of January 6, 2025, Khong, who serves as a caretaker for the woman three times a week, is accused of arriving for his scheduled caretaking shift and covering the woman’s eyes with a medical mask before removing the woman’s diaper. He is accused of tightening medical restraints around the woman’s wrists before sexually assaulting her in her medical bed. Khong had a prior association to the woman.
Khong turned himself into the Orange Police Department on February 3, 2025, after the woman’s family threatened to turn him in to the police.
“He targeted the most vulnerable of victims, knowing that she was so helpless she couldn’t even cry out for help,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is another tragic example that sexual predators do not age out of their sadistic deviancies, and we must never stop fighting to protect the defenseless from the predators who wish to prey on them for their sick and twisted sexual gratification.”
Deputy District Attorney Elise Levy of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Phuong Hoang Khong
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
