PAROLEE WHO TRAFFICKED WOMAN WHILE ON GPS MONITORING SENTENCED TO 233 YEARS TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR KIDNAPPING, RAPING AND PIMPING VICTIM ON THE FOURTH OF JULY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
PAROLEE WHO TRAFFICKED WOMAN WHILE ON GPS MONITORING SENTENCED TO 233 YEARS TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR KIDNAPPING, RAPING AND PIMPING VICTIM ON THE FOURTH OF JULY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 17, 2017
Home
Press
PAROLEE WHO TRAFFICKED WOMAN WHILE ON GPS MONITORING SENTENCED TO 233 YEARS TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR KIDNAPPING, RAPING AND PIMPING VICTIM ON THE FOURTH OF JULY
March 17, 2017
Case # 15CF1483
PAROLEE WHO TRAFFICKED WOMAN WHILE ON GPS MONITORING SENTENCED TO 233 YEARS TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR KIDNAPPING, RAPING, AND PIMPING VICTIM ON THE FOURTH OF JULY
*Longest sentence in HEAT Unit history
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A parolee who trafficked a woman while on GPS monitoring was sentenced yesterday to 233 years to life in prison for kidnapping, raping, and pimping a victim on the Fourth of July. Beau James Dearborne, 38, Santa Ana, was found guilty by a jury on Nov. 17, 2016, of two felony counts each of forcible rape in concert, oral copulation in concert with force and fear, pimping, and pandering, and one felony count each of human trafficking, kidnapping to commit rape, and second degree robbery. The defendant admitted a prior serious and violent felony strike conviction for rape of an unconscious person in 2010 in Orange County, and sentencing enhancements for prior prison convictions in 2003 and 2006 in Clark County, Nevada. Dearborne was sentenced on March 16, 2017, to 228 years determinate and 5 years to life indeterminate.
“This defendant exploited and abused a vulnerable victim to support his greed with absolute lack of humanity,” stated District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “This face of evil should never be able to breathe fresh air outside of prison and we hope it sends a message to anyone who intends to engage in human trafficking in Orange County.”
“I also want to commend the bravery of Jane Doe, who risked her life not only to escape, but bravely testified during trial and confronted the despicable defendant. We hope that anyone who is victimized in this manner will know that not only will we prosecute these defendants to the fullest extent of the law, but we will help them escape the life,” stated Rackauckas.
Circumstances of the Case
Dearborne is a human trafficker/pimp who exploits women for financial gain. Pimps often establish rigid rules that their victims are expected to follow including requiring victims to speak only when spoken to, address the pimp as “Sir” or “Daddy,” assigning seats in the car based on “rank,” and setting daily quotas that the victims are expected to fulfill. The victims are often required to turn over all payment they receive for sex acts from sex purchasers to their pimp. Failure to follow these rules can result in deprivation of food and/or physical and/or emotional abuse.
Between Jan. 14, 2015, and May 15, 2015, Dearborne pimped and pandered Jane Doe 2 in Orange County.
Prior to July 4, 2015, Dearborne befriended Jane Doe 1, who was homeless. The defendant convinced the victim to watch a fireworks show with him for the Fourth of July. When the show was over, Dearborne refused to let the victim leave. The defendant forced the victim to orally copulate him, forcibly raped her, and took her to an area of Santa Ana known for human trafficking and prostitution.
In the early morning hours of July 5, 2015, Dearborne trafficked Jane Doe 1 and arranged for a sex purchaser to orally copulate and have intercourse with the victim against her will in exchange for money he kept for himself.
Dearborne brought the victim back to his car and fell asleep. Jane Doe 1 escaped and called 911. The Santa Ana Police Department (SAPD) arrested Dearborne at the scene. Jane Doe 2 was later identified during the investigation.
For Dearborne’s sentencing yesterday, Jane Doe 1 wrote a powerful victim impact statement to the court detailing the effect of the heinous crimes that she bravely reported. The prosecutor read her statement in full:
“I’ve been thinking what I want to say. How I want to say it. And every time I have something, it’s just not right. Now I think I have something but I know I will never be satisfied with the answer. My question is Why? Why me? Why ruin my life? Why torture me? The pain and trauma I had and feel I don’t want to put onto somebody else, but why did it have to be me?
“I was happy. I was fine. Yeah my relationship sucked but I was working on leaving him. Can you answer me that Mr. Dearborne? Can you answer me why you decided to take an innocent girl, manipulate her, rape her, and sell her body without her permission? Cause that’s what you did to me and the sick part is you were okay with it. You are a mentally unstable person. And I hope that whatever punishment the judge sees fit for you, you get professional help as well. You turn yourself around for the better. I don’t wish you any harm, although I’m sure others do. I don’t wish any harm on your family either. I just wish for you and your family to come to terms with what you are and the fact that you need help.
“I’m sorry things had to be the way they are for me. I wish back then I was stronger. You know how the hairs on the back of your neck stand up when you’re scared? Well I’m sure you’ve never felt that but the moment I got into your car I felt that. But I didn’t want to die. I fought you the best way that I could. I thank God every day for giving me the strength that night. I’m sure I’ll never get answers and I’m sure I’ll never find complete closure. But that’s okay. Knowing you will be locked up for a long time is quite enough for me. I’m sorry I just rambled here but there’s a lot I want to say but I feel this is enough.”
Members of the OCHTTF and the Orange County District Attorney’s (OCDA) Office work proactively to protect women and minors from falling victim to commercial sexual exploitation. This case was investigated by OCHTTF, a partnership between Anaheim Police Department, California Highway Patrol, Costa Mesa Police Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Irvine Police Department, Newport Beach Police Department, OCDA, Orange County Sheriff’s Department, SAPD, and community and non-profit partners.
Deputy District Attorney Brad Schoenleben of the HEAT Unit prosecuted this case.
Proposition 35 and HEAT
To read more about California’s anti-human trafficking Proposition 35 and the OCDA’s Human Exploitation and Trafficking (HEAT) Unit, please visit
www.orangecountyda.org
and select Human Trafficking Information from the Media Center drop down menu.
Tagged with:
Beau James Dearborne
Kidnapping
Pimping
raping
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
