Former Huntington Beach Police Crime Scene Investigator Charged with Stealing Drugs from Attempted Murder Suspect’s Vehicle - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Former Huntington Beach Police Crime Scene Investigator Charged with Stealing Drugs from Attempted Murder Suspect’s Vehicle
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 22, 2020
Home
Press
Former Huntington Beach Police Crime Scene Investigator Charged with Stealing Drugs from Attempted Murder Suspect’s Vehicle
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 20WM15196
Date: December 22, 2020
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Former Huntington Beach Police Crime Scene Investigator Charged with Stealing Drugs from Attempted Murder Suspect’s Vehicle, Driving Police SUV under Influence
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Huntington Beach Police Department crime scene investigator has been charged with stealing drugs from an attempted murder suspect’s vehicle, ingesting the drug, and then driving a police vehicle under the influence.
Sean Patrick Lotts, 53, of Huntington Beach, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of embezzlement by a public official, one misdemeanor count of seizing property under the color of authority, and one misdemeanor count of driving under the influence.
Lotts is scheduled to be arraigned on April 7, 2021 at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W1. He faces a maximum sentence of two years in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
On January 23, 2020, Lotts was working as a crime scene investigator for the Huntington Beach Police Department when he was assigned to photograph a vehicle belonging to an attempted murder suspect. While processing the vehicle, Lotts is accused of taking photos of several pills found inside the vehicle and ingesting at least one of the pills. The pills were later identified as Flualprazolam, a rare designer drug.
Lotts is then accused of driving a Huntington Beach Police Ford Explorer to his home while under the influence of the drug.
Lotts resigned from the Huntington Beach Police Department in lieu of termination.
“I am disappointed and angered by this conduct. As the elected District Attorney, it is my responsibility to prosecute corrupt police officers and law enforcement personnel,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The public has an expectation that law enforcement employees – whether they are sworn or civilian – will conduct themselves in a way that is in accordance with the laws they are tasked with enforcing. It is ludicrous that someone processing a crime scene would even think of – much less act on – stealing evidence from a crime scene and then using that evidence for their own recreational purposes.”
Deputy District Attorney Frank Acosta of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Flualprazolam
Sean Patrick Lotts
Stealing From Crime Scene
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
