Former Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Plead Guilty to Filing a False Police Report - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
Former Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Plead Guilty to Filing a False Police Report
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 29, 2021
Home
Press
Former Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Plead Guilty to Filing a False Police Report
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 29, 2021
Case # 20ZF0005
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s deputy has pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of filing a false police report in connection with failing to properly book evidence. An Orange County superior court judge agreed to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor over the objection of prosecutors.
Edwin Morales Mora, 45, was indicted on August 5, 2020 by a grand jury on one felony count of filing a false police report.
On August 30, 2017, Mora, while employed as an Orange County Sheriff’s deputy, knowingly wrote and filed a false police report that stated he booked a knife, methamphetamine, and a glass smoking pipe into the Sheriff’s evidence locker in Santa Ana. He never booked the evidence.
Mora is no longer employed by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
Mora is the third former Orange County Sheriff’s deputy to be convicted of lying in police reports as a result of the fallout of an Orange County Sheriff’s Department audit that revealed systematic evidence booking issues.
Joseph Anthony Atkinson, Jr., 39, and Bryce Richmond Simpson, 31, each pleaded guilty on June 5, 2020 to one misdemeanor count of willful omission to perform their official duty. Atkinson and Simpson were both sentenced to one year informal probation.
Simpson became an Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy in 2012. Atikinson was hired in April 2013. Neither is currently employed by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
In mid-November 2019, District Attorney Todd Spitzer became aware of the extent of evidence booking issues within the Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) and the existence of department-wide internal audits.  District Attorney Spitzer had not been made aware of the extent of these audits previously and only became aware of the matter on November 15, 2019 when he was informed about it from a local newspaper reporter.
Upon learning of the full extent of the audits, District Attorney Spitzer immediately requested additional information from the Sheriff’s Department about potentially impacted criminal cases to ensure that the District Attorney’s Office was able to “identify any and all cases handled by the OCDA where a defendant’s due process rights may have been negatively impacted by having evidence collected but not booked.”
District Attorney Spitzer also directed two senior prosecutors to oversee the office’s response. Because of the deficiencies in the Sheriff’s audit, District Attorney Spitzer ordered a hand-search of all cases resulting in a conviction over a three-year period – from March 2015 to March 2018 – to determine if there were cases where evidence was collected but not booked.
A total of 22,289 cases were reviewed by a joint team of OCSD and DA investigators
3,639 notifications made to defense attorneys in potentially impacted cases (both active and closed cases)
Charges were reduced or dismissed in 67 cases
Two former OCSD deputies have been convicted of a misdemeanor for failing to properly book evidence
A third former OCSD deputy has been convicted of a misdemeanor for filing a false police report.
All DNA profiles related to potentially impacted cases identified in the Sheriff’s Department evidence booking audit will be expunged from the OCDA DNA database
The OCDA reports on the Sheriff’s Department Evidence Booking Issues can be found
here
.
In 2020, District Attorney Spitzer re-opened the criminal investigation of Simpson, Atkinson, Mora and the 14 other Orange County Sheriff’s deputies accused of not properly booking evidence after personally reviewing each file himself. Sixteen of the deputies have been added to the District Attorney’s Brady Notification System. Brady v. Maryland requires prosecutors to disclose to the defense any material exculpatory evidence, including evidence that could be used to impeach police witnesses.
As a result of the additional review, the District Attorney’s Office hired veteran prosecutor Patrick K. O’Toole as a special prosecutor to review the 17 cases and determine if criminal charges were warranted. O’Toole served as the United States Attorney of the Southern District of California and as the head of the San Diego District Attorney’s Public Integrity Division.
“The public has an absolute expectation that their law enforcement officers will carry out their duties lawfully and truthfully,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “When law enforcement officers falsify reports and break the law, it deprives defendants and victims of their constitutional rights, jeopardizes the criminal justice system, and erodes the public trust. As soon as I was made aware of this situation, I immediately took action to ensure the rights of victims and defendants were safeguarded and to hold those who violated the law accountable.”
###
Tagged with:
Edwin Morales Mora
Evidence
False Report
Knife
Methamphetamine
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Filed in Largest Orange County Drug Bust in 16 Years - Buena Park pair arrested with enough fentanyl to kill 4.7 Million People; more than 800 pounds of meth and nearly 190 pounds of cocaine taken off the street by the Buena Park Police Department
Press
Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation
Press
MAN SENTENCED TO ONE YEAR AND FOUR MONTHS IN PRISON FOR PLANTING WEAPONS AND METHAMPHETAMINE IN VICTIM’S TRUCK AND MAKING FALSE REPORT TO LAW ENFORCEMENT
