Charges Filed in Largest Orange County Drug Bust in 16 Years - Buena Park pair arrested with enough fentanyl to kill 4.7 Million People; more than 800 pounds of meth and nearly 190 pounds of cocaine taken off the street by the Buena Park Police Department - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Charges Filed in Largest Orange County Drug Bust in 16 Years – Buena Park pair arrested with enough fentanyl to kill 4.7 Million People; more than 800 pounds of meth and nearly 190 pounds of cocaine taken off the street by the Buena Park Police Department
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
April 6, 2022
Home
Press
Charges Filed in Largest Orange County Drug Bust in 16 Years – Buena Park pair arrested with enough fentanyl to kill 4.7 Million People; more than 800 pounds of meth and nearly 190 pounds of cocaine taken off the street by the Buena Park Police Department
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  April 6, 2022
Case # 22NF0710
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has filed felony charges against two Buena Park drug dealers in the largest drug bust in Orange County in 16 years, recovering enough fentanyl from inside a minivan to kill 4.7 million people. A lethal dose of fentanyl is as little as 2 milligrams; authorities recovered 20.5 pounds.
Buena Park police officers recovered 821 pounds of meth, 189.7 pounds of cocaine and 20.5 pounds of fentanyl pills after pulling over a minivan leaving a Buena Park home on March 17, 2022.
“Millions of unsuspecting people have the grim reaper looking over their shoulder and they have no idea how close they actually are to dying from taking a single pill,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Fentanyl is cheap, it’s easy to get and it is killing our children, our coworkers, and tens of thousands of innocent Americans who don’t have to die. Drug dealers don’t care about you or your loved ones – they only care about their bottom line and making as much money as possible. With fentanyl in an estimated 40 percent of street drugs, it’s not a matter of if but when someone you know, and love dies from fentanyl. We have to continue to do everything we can to combat this deadly drug epidemic and save lives.”
Edgar Alfonso Lamas, 36, and Carlos Raygozaparedes, 53, have been charged with one felony count of possession of sale of a controlled substance, three felony counts of sale or transportation for sale of a controlled substance, and two felony counts of possession of sale of a controlled substance.
Raygozaparedes and Lamas are also charged with two felony enhancements that the controlled substances exceeded 80 kilograms by weight and two felony enhancements that the controlled substances exceeded 20 kilograms by weight or 400 liters by liquid volume.
Raygozaparedes and Lamas both face a maximum sentence of 37 years and 4 months if convicted on all charges. They have pled not guilty and remain in custody in lieu of $5 million bail. A preliminary hearing is set for June 7, 2021, at the North Justice Center in Fullerton in Department N3.
Last November, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer announced the Orange County District Attorney’s Office is warning every convicted drug dealer and distributor of the dangers of drugs – especially fentanyl – and advising them that if their drug activities result is someone’s death they can be charged with murder. Every law enforcement agency in Orange County has also committed to providing a controlled substance advisement at the time of arrest to warn drug dealers and manufacturers of the deadly consequences of their criminal activities.
###
Tagged with:
Carlos Raygozaparedes
Cocaine
Drugs
Edgar Alfonso Lamas
Fentanyl
Fentanyl Feature
Meth
Methamphetamine
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Vehicular Manslaughter While Intoxicated after Toxicology Confirms Long Beach Woman Had Fentanyl, Methamphetamine, and Marijuana in her System When She Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others
Press
Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach
Press
Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment
