Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 9, 2021
Home
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 9, 2021
Case# 21CF0349
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy
Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Sheriff’s deputy who served as a field training officer has been charged with two felonies in connection with filing a false police report under his trainee’s name and forging a victim’s signature.
Chad Matthew Renegar, 30, has been charged with one felony count of filing a false police report and one felony count of perjury. He faces a maximum sentence of 4 years and 8 months in state prison if convicted on all charges.
He is scheduled to be arraigned on March 24, 2021 at the Central Justice Center in Department C55.
Renegar has worked for the Orange County Sheriff’s Department for eight years. He is currently on administrative leave.
On May 16, 2019, Renegar was assigned to work in the city of Rancho Santa Margarita as a field training officer for a newly assigned patrol deputy.
The training officer and trainee responded to a call from a woman who reported her license plate had been stolen. Despite the woman telling the two deputies her license plate had been stolen in Santa Monica, which is outside of the jurisdiction of the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, the deputies had the woman sign a CHP form to report her stolen license plate.
A sergeant later rejected the report because of the out-of-county location of the crime. Renegar is accused of instructing the trainee to change the location of the theft to Rancho Santa Margarita. When she didn’t, Renegar is accused of typing the report for her under her name, filling out a second CHP form and changing the location to Rancho Santa Margarita, and forging the victim’s name.
“Maintaining trust and accountability between law enforcement and the communities they are sworn to protect has never been more important, “said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Dishonesty among the ranks of our law enforcement jeopardizes that trust and it will not be tolerated.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Chad Matthew Renegar
False Police Report
Perjury
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Convicted of Filing a False Police Report
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged With Filing a False Police Report
Press
Anaheim Police Officer Charged with Perjury, Filing a False Police Report
