Anaheim Man Found Guilty of Murdering Ex-Girlfriend While Awaiting Domestic Violence Trial for Beating Her, Throwing Her Over a Patio Fence Four Months Earlier - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Anaheim Man Found Guilty of Murdering Ex-Girlfriend While Awaiting Domestic Violence Trial for Beating Her, Throwing Her Over a Patio Fence Four Months Earlier
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
May 29, 2024
Home
Press
Anaheim Man Found Guilty of Murdering Ex-Girlfriend While Awaiting Domestic Violence Trial for Beating Her, Throwing Her Over a Patio Fence Four Months Earlier
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 29, 2024
Case #: 23NF0724
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Anaheim Man Found Guilty of Murdering Ex-Girlfriend While Awaiting Domestic Violence Trial for Beating Her, Throwing Her Over a Patio Fence Four Months Earlier
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 37-year-old man was found guilty today of beating and strangling his 24-year-old ex-girlfriend to death at his Anaheim apartment on St. Patrick’s Day 2023 while awaiting trial for beating and throwing the woman over a patio fence in a violent attack just four months earlier.
A jury convicted Aaron Stevan Romo, 37, of Anaheim, of one felony count of first-degree murder for killing his girlfriend, 24-year-old Mirelle Mateus, in 2023. He was also convicted of one felony count of domestic battery with corporal injury, and one felony count of false imprisonment by menace, violence, fraud or deceit in connection with a December 5, 2022 attack on Mateus.
Romo faces a maximum sentence of life in state prison with the possibility of parole. Sentencing is scheduled for June 24, 2024 in Department C36 of the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
On March 17, 2023, Romo called his ex-girlfriend Mirelle Mateus to pick him up after he was badly injured in a fight outside of a bar in the city of Orange. Mateus, who had a restraining order against Romo which was set to expire in 2025, picked him up and took him to the Anaheim apartment the couple once shared.
The next day, Mateus’ mother became concerned when she noticed her daughter didn’t return home and she was unable to reach her on her cell phone. Mateus’ mother went to Romo’s apartment and found the apartment’s door open and Mateus dead in the bathroom. She had been badly beaten and strangled to death.
Romo was later arrested at the home of his current girlfriend in Riverside where he unsuccessfully attempted suicide several times.
At the time of the Mateus’ murder, Romo was awaiting trial on domestic violence charges stemming from an incident on December 5, 2022, for hitting her and throwing her over a patio fence. He was released on bond and was ordered to have no contact with Mateus.
“The cycle of domestic violence has tragically claimed the life of another victim who could not escape the deadly hands of her abuser,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “A mother’s last memory of her daughter should not be finding her lifeless body on the floor where she spent the last moments of her life struggling to get away from the man who had repeatedly abused her. He is a master manipulator who repeatedly lured his victim back in only to ruthlessly beat and strangle her until she took her last breath.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Aaron Stevan Romo
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 6 =
