Man Charged With Six Counts of Attempted Murder for Driving onto Sidewalk to Intentionally Hit Pedestrians, Ramming Car into Department Store in Huntington Beach While Under the Influence of Drugs - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Charged With Six Counts of Attempted Murder for Driving onto Sidewalk to Intentionally Hit Pedestrians, Ramming Car into Department Store in Huntington Beach While Under the Influence of Drugs
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
October 20, 2023
Home
Press
Man Charged With Six Counts of Attempted Murder for Driving onto Sidewalk to Intentionally Hit Pedestrians, Ramming Car into Department Store in Huntington Beach While Under the Influence of Drugs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 20, 2023
Case #: 23WF3210
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged With Six Counts of Attempted Murder for Driving onto Sidewalk to Intentionally Hit Pedestrians, Ramming Car into Department Store in Huntington Beach While Under the Influence of Drugs
Driver injured several people and caused $425,000 in damage to the store.
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A driver has been charged with six counts of attempted murder for using his car to intentionally hit a group of people outside a Huntington Beach Kohl’s and then crash through the store’s front doors to hit more people last week. He is accused of being under the influence of drugs at the time.
Tuan Miller, 54, of Anaheim, was charged with six felony counts of attempted murder and one felony count of driving under the influence of a drug causing injury, one felony count of vandalism and one felony count of evading a police officer. He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted of all counts.
Miller made his initial court appearance on October 17 but his arraignment was continued to November 3 in Department W12 of the West Justice Center in Westminster.
On October 13, at about 8 p.m., a group of people were outside a Kohl’s department store at the Bella Terra shopping center in Huntington Beach to listen to a group of singers. Miller is accused of driving onto the sidewalk near the front of the store and hitting two women, who suffered minor injuries. One of the women was pulled out of the way by another bystander.
Miller then is accused of revving his engine and accelerating toward three other people. He hit one of the people, who became lodged in the front of Miller’s car as it crashed through the store’s glass doors.
Miller fled the scene and was later arrested.
“Driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol has catastrophic and often deadly consequences,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The decision to get behind the wheel while intoxicated by either drugs or alcohol is never the right decision. We as a society have to wake up and realize that driving under the influence is something we must take seriously – and when people made the decision to do drugs and get behind the wheel there must be consequences. Juries have become complacent when it comes to convicting defendants of driving under the influence of marijuana and other drugs and that has to stop. It’s not a matter of if; it’s a matter of when a repeat drugged or drunk driver finally seriously injured or kills someone.”
Deputy District Attorney Brian Perk of the West Justice Center is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Tuan Miller
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 2 =
