Orange County District Attorney Completes Review of Sheriff’s Evidence Booking Audit - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Orange County District Attorney Completes Review of Sheriff’s Evidence Booking Audit
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 13, 2021
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Completes Review of Sheriff’s Evidence Booking Audit
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 13, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Orange County District Attorney Completes
Review of Sheriff’s Evidence Booking Audit
Two former deputies have been convicted of a misdemeanor and a third is awaiting trial for filing a false police report in connection with failing to properly book evidence
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has completed its review of the Sheriff’s Evidence Booking Audit.
In mid-November 2019, District Attorney Todd Spitzer became aware of the extent of evidence booking issues within the Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) and the existence of department-wide internal audits. District Attorney Spitzer had not been made aware of the extent of these audits previously and only became aware of the matter on November 15, 2019 when he was informed about it from a local newspaper reporter. Although OCSD believes the OCDA should have known, the OCDA questions why the Sheriff’s Department made it so difficult to understand the extent of the issues with evidence booking.
Upon learning of the full extent of the audits, District Attorney Spitzer immediately requested additional information from the Sheriff’s Department about potentially impacted criminal cases to ensure that the District Attorney’s Office was able to “identify any and all cases handled by the OCDA where a defendant’s due process rights may have been negatively impacted by having evidence collected but not booked.”
District Attorney Spitzer also directed two senior prosecutors to oversee the office’s response. Because of the deficiencies in the Sheriff’s audit, District Attorney Spitzer ordered a hand-search of all cases resulting in a conviction over a three-year period – from March 2015 to March 2018 – to determine if there were cases where evidence was collected but not booked.
A total of 22,289 cases were reviewed by a joint team of OCSD and DA investigators
3,639 notifications made to defense attorneys in potentially impacted cases (both active and closed cases)
Charges were reduced or dismissed in 67 cases
Two former OCSD deputies have been convicted of a misdemeanor and a third former deputy is awaiting trial on a felony charge of filing a false police report
All DNA profiles related to potentially impacted cases identified in the Sheriff’s Department evidence booking audit will be expunged from the OCDA DNA database
The OCDA reports on the Sheriff’s Department Evidence Booking Issues can be found
here
.
Tagged with:
Evidence booking audit
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 8 =
