Repeat Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Woman Walking Dog - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Repeat Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Woman Walking Dog
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 9, 2020
Home
Press
Repeat Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Woman Walking Dog
Case # 20HF1429
Driver had previously been convicted twice of driving under the influence
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 31-year-old man has been charged with murder and driving under the influence of alcohol in the death of a 72-year-old Newport Beach woman who was killed while crossing the street after the driver ran a red light and hit her Sunday morning. The woman’s dog was also killed.
Ali Zohair Fakhreddine, of Riverside, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of driving under the influence causing injury, one felony count of hit and run with permanent and serious injury, and one felony count of driving with a blood alcohol level of .08% or more causing bodily injury.
He faces a maximum sentence of 19 years to life if convicted of all charges. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail.
Fakhreddine was convicted of driving under the influence in San Bernardino County in 2008 and in Orange County in 2015.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. The Steve Ambriz Act, authored by then-Assembly member Todd Spitzer, requires people applying for a California driver’s license to sign a form acknowledging that they can be charged with murder if they kill someone while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
On September 6, 2020 at around 6:33 a.m. Cleusa Moraes Coffman was crossing Irvine Avenue at Mesa Street in an unincorporated area of Orange County near the border of Newport Beach and Costa Mesa. Fakhreddine is accused of running a red light while driving southbound on Irvine Avenue and hitting Coffman and her Shitzu.  Coffman and her dog were both killed.
The driver fled the scene and was found by the Riverside police passed out behind the wheel of his silver Hyundai Sonata which had sustained front end damage.   When officers attempted to wake him up, he drove off. He was contacted again by officers and arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence.
“Orange County roads have become incredibly deadly over the last few months because drivers are ignoring multiple warnings not to drink or use drugs and drive. Our county is experiencing a crisis when it comes to fatal crashes involving impaired drivers. Innocent people should not be dying as a result of the selfish decisions by impaired drivers to get behind the wheel of a motor vehicle,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “If you drink or use drugs, don’t drive. The life you save maybe someone else’s, or it may be your own. If you decide to drive under the influence and you kill someone, you may be charged with murder.”
Over the last two months the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has filed numerous cases involving fatal DUI crashes. District Attorney Spitzer has declared Orange County is facing a serious crisis that has resulted in the senseless deaths of so many innocent people. In response, District Attorney Spitzer last week formed the Task Force for the Prevention of Impaired Driving Fatalities with local law enforcement leaders, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), the state Office of Traffic Safety, and statewide trainers to develop urgent and immediate recommendations for what can be done to stop this disturbing trend and save additional lives. The task force’s recommendations will be announced in the next two weeks.
Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Ali Zohair Fakhreddine
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Hit and Run
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
