It’s Time To Act - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
It’s Time To Act
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
June 17, 2023
Home
Press
It’s Time To Act
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 17, 2023
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Under President Biden’s tenure, lawlessness and crime is the new normal in many communities across America and it is a direct result of Democrats’ inaction and criminal-friendly laws.
Now, a sophisticated and organized crime ring composed of Chilean nationals is exploiting Chile’s status in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program to come to America, committing home burglaries throughout southern California, and laundering money through China.
While Chile refuses to share criminal background information with us so we can conduct checks on those entering our country, Secretary Mayorkas also fails to act. If this continues, House Republicans will restrict funding for this program.
To address this issue head on, today federal and local law enforcement officials sounded the alarm with Speaker Kevin McCarthy and other Members of California’s Congressional delegation about this crime operation.
After being briefed on the details of the crime surge, Speaker McCarthy (CA-20), Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-41), Rep. Young Kim (CA-40), Rep. Michelle Steel (CA-45), California Assemblyman Vince Fong, and Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer held a press conference to highlight federal government inaction and lay out what Congress will do to restore law and order if the Biden administration and missing-in-action California officials like Governor Newsom continue to support the criminal-friendly policies and laws that have created this organized crime spree. Our communities stand united in their desire to return to law and order, and they deserve leaders who will stand up for them.
“Secretary [Mayorkas] has ignored the safety of Americans. If you’ve ever been robbed in your house, you lose more than just your property. You lose the sense of safety. You question who drives by your house again. You question when you walk into your house,  will you be safe. Your children don’t know if they’ll be safe and sleep with a night light.
This does not have to be the case.
“Based upon the information that we’ve
gotten
today thanks to Todd Spitzer and the law
enforcement
–
when
we mark up appropriations coming in the next weeks, we will put a provision in there, because
Secretary
Mayorkas will not act,
that
we will not allow him to use money when it comes to Chile for the visa waiver program until this issue is solved so Americans are safe.
“
Click Here for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Speaker Kevin McCarthy
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
