Long Beach Woman Charged with Felony Hit and Run Causing Death in Crash that Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Long Beach Woman Charged with Felony Hit and Run Causing Death in Crash that Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others
Author
Chase Healy
Published
October 22, 2025
Home
Press
Long Beach Woman Charged with Felony Hit and Run Causing Death in Crash that Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 22, 2025
Case #: 25WF4832
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Long Beach Woman Charged with Felony Hit and Run Causing Death
in Crash that Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others
Santa Ana – A Long Beach woman has been charged with three felonies in connection with killing a bicyclist and critically injuring two others when she drove on the shoulder of Pacific Coast Highway in Huntington Beach while on her way to work Monday morning.
The driver did not stop after hitting the three bicyclists despite having a flat tire and obvious damage to her car. Instead, she continued driving another 2/3 mile and blowing through a state park parking lot kiosk without paying before being blocked in by another driver who witnessed the crash and followed her to the parking lot.
Amber Kristine Calderon, 43, of Long Beach, has been charged with one felony count of hit and run causing permanent injury or death, and two felony counts of hit and run with injury. She faces a maximum sentence of 5 years and four months.
On Monday October 20, 2025, at about 6:47 a.m., Calderon was driving southbound on Pacific Coast Highway in Huntington Beach, north of Newland Street, when she is accused of driving onto the shoulder of the road and into a group three bicyclists who were riding together on the shoulder.  One of the bicyclists, 45-year-old Eric John Williams, died at the scene. The two other bicyclists suffered serious injuries, including spinal fractures, broken ribs, a broken ankle, as well as cuts and bruises.
Despite having significant damage to her hood, windshield, front bumper and losing her passenger side mirror at the site of the collision, Calderon is accused of driving on a flat tire for another 2/3 of a mile to a beach parking lot at Magnolia Street and driving past the parking kiosk without paying.
A parking attendant flagged her down before a witness to the crash blocked Calderon in with his vehicle and told the parking attendant not to let her leave because she had just hit three bicyclists. The parking attendant radioed for the California State Parks Police to respond.
Calderon was arrested on suspicion of felony hit and run resulting in death or injury, gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, felony driving under the influence causing death or injury, and possession of a hard drug with a prior conviction. Toxicology results are still pending.
“Human life is precious, and an early morning bike ride with friends turned into what can only be described as a heartbreaking tragedy,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are working closely with our law enforcement partners to ensure justice is carried out to the fullest extent of the law for Mr. Williams and his loved ones and for the two other bicyclists who survived such a horrific ordeal on what should have been a peaceful ride along the beach.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Devin Campbell of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Amber Kristine Calderon
Homicide
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
