MAN LINKED THROUGH PEPSI CAN DNA CONVICTED OFSTABBING-MURDER OF ELDERLY SANTA ANA COUPLE - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
MAN LINKED THROUGH PEPSI CAN DNA CONVICTED OFSTABBING-MURDER OF ELDERLY SANTA ANA COUPLE
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 14, 2008
Home
Press
MAN LINKED THROUGH PEPSI CAN DNA CONVICTED OFSTABBING-MURDER OF ELDERLY SANTA ANA COUPLE
Orange County District Attorney
Press Release
Tony Rackauckas, District Attorney
401 Civic Center Drive West
Santa Ana, CA 92701
For Immediate Release
Case # 05CF3954
August 14, 2008
Susan Kang Schroeder
Public Affairs Counsel
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
MAN LINKED THROUGH PEPSI CAN DNA
CONVICTED OFSTABBING-MURDER OF
ELDERLY SANTA ANA COUPLE
*The District Attorney is seeking the death penalty in this case
SANTA ANA – A man was convicted today of murdering an elderly couple by stabbing them to death after being linked to the crime through DNA found on a Pepsi can. Carlos Martinez, 32, Santa Ana, was found guilty by a jury of two felony counts of special circumstances murder during the commission of a burglary, two felony counts of elder abuse, and one felony count of first degree residential burglary. The sentencing enhancement allegations for multiple murders, the personal use of a deadly weapon, and great bodily injury to an elder were found true. Martinez has a prior conviction for a 1995 car theft. The District Attorney is seeking the death penalty in this case. The penalty phase of the trial is scheduled to begin Monday, Aug. 18, 2008 at 1:30 p.m.
in Department C-40, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
At approximately 6:30 p.m. on Dec. 29, 2004, Martinez went to the Santa Ana home of Nicholas Casas, 83, and Emilia Casas, 73, with the intention of burglarizing the couple’s house. The married couple had their house up for sale and was planning to move to Riverside so that one of their children could help to care for them.
Martinez was able to enter the home by pretending to be a prospective buyer. Shortly after he arrived, one of the victim’s daughters called the house and spoke to her parents, who told her they were excited to have a potential buyer at the residence. After the victims had spoken to their daughter, the defendant stabbed each victim several times using steak knives from the kitchen and left their bodies on the floor before ransacking the house.
He drank a Pepsi and left the can on the kitchen counter.
Martinez was in the home until approximately 8:00 p.m., but fled the scene empty handed after being startled away, possibly by the arrival of another of the Casas’ daughters. A neighbor witnessed someone running from the porch of the victim’s home at approximately the same time one of the daughters arrived to check on her parents.
The daughter, who regularly visited her parents, found the victims on the floor in the living room. The ransacked house was covered in blood, including smears on the walls.
Items from the crime scene, including the Pepsi can, were tested and the defendant was later linked to the crime through DNA. The defendant’s DNA was also found in a bloody handprint on a pillow in the bedroom and on a drawer in the hallway.
Assistant District Attorney Dave Brent of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
