Man Convicted of Second degree Murder in 2011 Christmas Day Killing of Wife - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Convicted of Second degree Murder in 2011 Christmas Day Killing of Wife
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
April 7, 2021
Home
Press
Man Convicted of Second degree Murder in 2011 Christmas Day Killing of Wife
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 7, 2021
Case # 13CF1273
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Convicted of Second degree Murder in 2011 Christmas Day Killing of Wife
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Anaheim man was convicted today of second degree murder for killing his wife on Christmas in 2011 and then propping her body on the couch while the woman’s children opened Christmas presents. He had previously spent time in jail for beating his wife.
William Wallace, 39, of Anaheim, was indicted on one felony count of murder by a grand jury in 2012.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on June 4, 2021. He faces a maximum sentence of 15 years to life.
Between Dec. 24, 2011, and Dec. 25, 2011, Wallace used blunt force trauma to the head of his wife, Zazell Preston, 26, rendering her unconscious. The victim’s 3-year-old and 8-year-old daughters from a previous relationship and the couple’s 7-week-old son were in the apartment at the time.
At approximately 9:30 a.m. on Dec. 25, 2011, Wallace is accused of calling 911 to report that Preston was in need of medical attention. Responding Anaheim Police Department officers discovered the victim unresponsive. She was transported to the hospital and pronounced dead.
Preston had been taking college classes in hopes of becoming a domestic violence counselor.
“A young mother finally losing her life after years of violence at the hands of her husband is a heart wrenching tragedy,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “That heartbreak is only exacerbated by the fact that her children witnessed much of the violence and were forced to celebrate Christmas in the presence of their dead mother. That is not a Christmas memory any child should be forced to have. Thankfully, Senior District Attorney Heather Brown fought for – and achieved – justice for Zazell Preston. We all have an obligation to speak up against violence of any kind, especially domestic violence where the victims are so fiercely controlled by their abusers. The cycle of domestic violence is a vicious one and I want every victim of domestic violence to know that they are not alone. No one should have to live in fear of violence in their own home.”
Victims of domestic violence can find help through the Orange County District Attorney’s Office and our community partners by visiting the Orange County District Attorney website at https://ocdistrictattorney.gov/howdoi/services/resources.asp
Senior Deputy District Attorney Heather Brown of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Christmas
Murder
William Wallace
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
