Third-striker Sentenced to 40 Years to Life For Murder in Shooting Death of Immigrant Walking Home - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Third-striker Sentenced to 40 Years to Life For Murder in Shooting Death of Immigrant Walking Home
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
October 10, 2022
Home
Press
Third-striker Sentenced to 40 Years to Life For Murder in Shooting Death of Immigrant Walking Home
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 10, 2022
Case #: 20ZF0006
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Third-striker Sentenced to 40 Years to Life For Murder in Shooting Death of Immigrant Walking Home
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A third-striker was sentenced today to 40 years to life for murder for executing a 30-year-old Guatemalan immigrant after following the man home from a market in a botched robbery attempt. The killer was on parole when he shot 30-year-old Oscar Humberto Chunmichicoj in the head.
Brandon Deandre Norwood, of Long Beach, was convicted on May 17, 2022 of second-degree murder with a sentencing enhancement for the discharge of a firearm causing death and one felony count of possession of a firearm by a felon.
Chunmichicoj was walking back to his Anaheim apartment on March 3, 2019 after filling up two water jugs at a nearby store when he was followed by a rental car. Norwood got out of the vehicle and followed Chunmichicoj and attempted to rob him.
Chunmichicoj resisted and Norwood shot him in the head once and ran back to the waiting rental car. Norwood was arrested after video surveillance put him at the murder scene.
“This young man was a completely innocent victim who came to this country for a better life,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Instead of realizing his American dream, Oscar ended up the victim of a violent crime at the hands of a career criminal. Thankfully, his killer will spend decades behind bars instead of preying on hardworking people like Oscar.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Chris Alex of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Brandon Deandre Norwood
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 2 =
