Tustin Podiatrist Convicted and Sentenced to 364 days Jail for Insurance Fraud Defendant was billing insurance companies for appointments and services that were never provided to patients - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Tustin Podiatrist Convicted and Sentenced to 364 days Jail for Insurance Fraud Defendant was billing insurance companies for appointments and services that were never provided to patients
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
May 23, 2022
Home
Press
Tustin Podiatrist Convicted and Sentenced to 364 days Jail for Insurance Fraud Defendant was billing insurance companies for appointments and services that were never provided to patients
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  May 23, 2022
Case #18CF0201
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A judge has rejected a Tustin podiatrist’s request to extend her jail surrender date to serve time for seven felony counts of insurance fraud for billing insurance companies for hundreds of appointments and services that never happened. In addition to jail time, Witt also faces a 10-year suspension of her medical license.
Renae Louise Witt, 42, is scheduled to report to the Orange County Jail on June 17, 2022 after being convicted in February of seven felony counts of filing a fraudulent claim for a health benefit. She was sentenced to 364 days in jail, two years formal probation and ordered to pay restitution to the insurance companies.
Between August 28, 2015 and April 3, 2017, while working as a doctor of podiatric medicine at the Tustin Place Medical Group, Witt billed two insurance companies for $174,395 for podiatrist appointments that never happened and for medical services that were never performed for six different patients.  The insurance companies paid out $75,861.52 for these fraudulent claims.
One of the patients was not even in the country on some of the dates that Witt billed appointments on her behalf.
When Anthem Blue Cross began investigating patient complaints about the billings, Witt provided fabricated medical records to try to justify the fraudulent billings.
“Doctors are entrusted with the most serious of responsibilities to maintain and restore human health,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Instead this doctor violated that position of trust and used her unsuspecting patients as a revenue stream by bilking insurance companies out of tens of thousands of dollars for work she never performed. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is committed to protecting patients from unscrupulous doctors and protecting insurance companies from being defrauded. Holding bad actors accountable prevents insurance rates from being increased and keeps costs down for patients. ”
Deputy District Attorney Steven Bunn of the Insurance Fraud Unit prosecuted this case.
###
Tagged with:
fraudulent claim
Insurance Fraud
Podiatrist
Renae Louise Witt
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
Press
Former Westminster Police Officer Caught Drinking and Dancing at Stagecoach Music Festival while Claiming a Head Injury Prevented her from Working Charged with 15 Felonies for Committing Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fraud, Stealing More than $600,000 from Taxpayers
Press
Man Banned for Life from California’s Workers’ Compensation System for Past Felony Fraud Convictions Charged in Extensive Workers’ Compensation Fraud Scheme with San Diego Neurosurgeon, Two Others for Billing Nearly $100  Million in Fraudulent Fees
