Five UCI Fraternity Members Charged with in Connection with Alcohol Poisoning Death of Under Aged Fraternity Brother - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Five UCI Fraternity Members Charged with in Connection with Alcohol Poisoning Death of Under Aged Fraternity Brother
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 30, 2019
Home
Press
Five UCI Fraternity Members Charged with in Connection with Alcohol Poisoning Death of Under Aged Fraternity Brother
Case #19HM12073
Orange County District Attorney’s Office is Pursuing Legislation Changes to Seek Stricter Penalties for Furnishing Alcohol to Minor that Results in Serious Injuries, Death
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Five members of a University of California, Irvine fraternity have been charged in connection with the alcohol poisoning death of a fellow under aged fraternity member after a party in January.
Zavier Larenz Brown, now 21, Jonathan Anephi Vu, now 22, Mohamed Ibragim Kharaev, now 21, Caleb Gavin Valleroy, now 20, and Jonathan Gabriel Villicana, now 21, were all members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity at UCI and were all on the lease of the off-campus fraternity house in the City of Irvine.
SAE member Noah Domingo, 18, of Irvine, died on January 12, 2019 after drinking with members of his fraternity as part of SAE’s “Big Brother Night.” Domingo had joined the fraternity several months prior, and Brown was Domingo’s “Big Brother” at the fraternity. There was no evidence that any of the defendants in the case engaged in hazing in connection with Domingo’s death.
Brown has been charged with one misdemeanor count of furnishing alcohol to a minor causing great bodily injury. Vu has been charged with one misdemeanor count of furnishing an alcoholic beverage to a minor.
Brown, Vu, Kharaev, Valleroy, and Villicana have all been charged with one misdemeanor count of violating the Irvine Municipal Code for allowing a party or gathering where underage drinking is permitted.
Brown faces a maximum of 18 months in jail if convicted on all counts. Kharaev, Vu, Valleroy, and Villicana all face a maximum of six months in jail if convicted.
”Providing alcohol to those under the legal drinking age is reckless and dangerous, especially in an environment that is notorious for excessive drinking by young people who may not understand the potential risks of their behavior,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Unfortunately, current law prevented prosecutors from filing anything more than a misdemeanor in this case. The furnishing of alcohol to a minor that results in great bodily injury or death should be a felony, and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office is pursuing legislation to make that change.”
Deputy District Attorney Matt Plunkett of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Alcohol Poisoning
Caleb Gavin Valleroy
Furnishing Alcohol to Minor
Jonathan Anephi Vu
Jonathan Gabriel Villicana
Kharaev
Mohamed Ibragim
Underage Drinking
Zavier Larenz Brown
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
