Mother Who Advocated for Stricter DUI Laws after Two Young Sons Killed by Drunk Driver Charged with Involuntary Manslaughter, Child Abuse for Allowing Three-Year-old Daughter to Die while Locked in a Vehicle in Extreme Heat while Mother was Severely Intoxicated - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Mother Who Advocated for Stricter DUI Laws after Two Young Sons Killed by Drunk Driver Charged with Involuntary Manslaughter, Child Abuse for Allowing Three-Year-old Daughter to Die while Locked in a Vehicle in Extreme Heat while Mother was Severely Intoxicated
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
September 10, 2024
Home
Press
Mother Who Advocated for Stricter DUI Laws after Two Young Sons Killed by Drunk Driver Charged with Involuntary Manslaughter, Child Abuse for Allowing Three-Year-old Daughter to Die while Locked in a Vehicle in Extreme Heat while Mother was Severely Intoxicated
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 10, 2024
Case #: 24NF2358
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Mother Who Advocated for Stricter DUI Laws after Two Young Sons Killed by Drunk Driver Charged with Involuntary Manslaughter, Child Abuse for Allowing Three-Year-old Daughter to Die while Locked in a Vehicle in Extreme Heat while Mother was Severely Intoxicated
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A mother who advocated for stricter DUI laws after her two young sons were run over and killed by a drunk driver while sleeping in their tent during a 2012 camping trip has been charged with involuntary manslaughter and child abuse for allowing her three-year-old daughter to die while locked in a vehicle in extreme heat while severely intoxicated.
The little girl’s mother had a blood alcohol content of nearly four times the legal limit when she was taken to the hospital after being found passed out in her vehicle along with her deceased toddler while parked near their Anaheim apartment Friday afternoon. Outdoor temperatures at the time were more than 104 degrees.
Sandra Hernandez-Cazares, 42, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of involuntary manslaughter and one felony count of child abuse causing great bodily injury. She faces a maximum sentence of 12 years if convicted on all charges. She is currently being held in lieu of $150,000 bail.
On Friday, September 6, 2024, family members began looking for Hernandez-Cazares after staff from her 5-year-old son’s elementary school called other family members to report that no one came to pick him up from kindergarten.
Family members broke out the window of a white Ford Expedition parked in front of the Anaheim apartment where Hernandez-Cazares was living with her two children after finding Hernandez-Cazares unconscious inside her with her three-year-old daughter Ily Ruiz.
Despite efforts by family members and paramedics to resuscitate the toddler, she was pronounced dead. Doctors estimate that little girl had been dead for several hours before she was discovered inside the locked car in extreme temperatures with her mother.
After Hernandez-Cazares’ 5-year-old and 9-year-old sons were killed by a drunk driver who ran over the boys as they were sleeping in a tent at a South Dakota campground during a family vacation in 2012, Hernandez-Cazares and her husband Juan Ruiz lobbied the North Dakota legislature for stronger penalties for driving under the influence.
On Friday, Anaheim police officers found empty alcohol bottles in the vehicle and Herandez-Cazares’ blood alcohol level was at a .30 after being taken to the hospital. Hernandez-Cazares’ five-year-old son is currently being cared for by relatives.
“The unimaginable pain of having your 5-year-old and 9-year-old sons killed by a drunk driver is something from which you can never recover,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Anyone who has suffered such a devastating tragedy knows the ripple effects of grief may be able to be hidden, but the heartbreak of losing your children will never go away. A mother who was robbed of the chance to see two of her sons grow up because of the selfish decision of a stranger will have to live with the fact she will never get to see her little girl grow up because of the choices she made.”
Deputy District Attorney Tina Hanley of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Family Protection
Sandra Hernandez-Cazares
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Involuntary Manslaughter Against Aliso Viejo Mother Whose 14-year-old Son Killed Vietnam Veteran While Child was  Illegally Riding an E-motorcycle 16 Times More Powerful than an e-Bike  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Aliso Viejo Mother Charged with Felony Child Endangerment After Vietnam Veteran Critically Injured When He Was Hit by Woman’s 14-Year-old Son Illegally Riding an E-Motorcycle 16 Times  More Powerful than E-Bike Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will  prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Yorba Linda Father Charged with Felony Child Endangerment and Abuse, Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor after 12-Year-old Son was Critically Injured while Illegally Riding E-motorcycle He Helped his Son Modify
