Sun Valley Man Convicted of Three Special Circumstances Murders for Helping Kill Parents of Teenage Girl He Became Obsessed with after Meeting Her Through “Furry” Subculture - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Sun Valley Man Convicted of Three Special Circumstances Murders for Helping Kill Parents of Teenage Girl He Became Obsessed with after Meeting Her Through “Furry” Subculture
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
November 13, 2024
Home
Press
Sun Valley Man Convicted of Three Special Circumstances Murders for Helping Kill Parents of Teenage Girl He Became Obsessed with after Meeting Her Through “Furry” Subculture
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 13, 2024
Case #: 16NF2644
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Sun Valley Man Convicted of Three Special Circumstances Murders for Helping Kill Parents of Teenage Girl
He Became Obsessed with after Meeting Her Through “Furry” Subculture
Family friend was also killed while sleeping on couch; Army mechanic sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for carrying out triple murder
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 33-year-old Sun Valley man has been convicted of three counts of special circumstances murder for helping carry out a plot to kill the mother and stepfather of a 17-year-old girl he became obsessed with after meeting her through the “furry” subculture. A friend of the family who was sleeping on the couch was also shot to death.
Frank Sato Felix, 33, of Sun Valley was convicted Tuesday of three felony counts of first-degree murder and three felony enhancements of multiple murders. He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole. He is scheduled to be sentenced on January 17, 2025, at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C30.
The 17-year-old girl was introduced by her mother to the “furry” subculture, which involves people dressing up in animal costumes, where she met Felix, then 25, and 21-year-old Joshua Charles Acosta, an Army mechanic stationed at Ft. Irwin in Barstow.  Felix became romantically involved with the teenage girl, but the girl’s mother, 39-year-old Jennifer Goodwill-Yost, and her stepfather, 35-year-old Christopher Yost, disapproved of the relationship.
Felix provided the ammunition and shotgun used to kill the victims. On September 24, 2016, Acosta and Felix drove to the Yosts’ Fullerton home to execute their plan to help the 17-year-old to escape the home until she turned 18.
After the parents and their houseguest, family friend Arthur “Billy” Boucher, went to sleep, the 17-year-old girl went into the truck with Felix.
Acosta then shot 28-year-old Boucher in the head as he was asleep on the living room couch. Acosta then went into the master bedroom and shot the 17-year-old’s mother in the face. The girl’s stepfather attempted to escape but was shot in the head as he tried to get out to the outside patio area.
Acosta fled the home, leaving the Yosts’ six-year-old and nine-year-old daughters alone in the home with the bodies of their parents and their friend, while he escaped with Katlynn and Felix to Felix’s home in Sun Valley where they burned their clothes and attempted to destroy their cell phones.
The Yosts’ six-year-old and nine-year-old daughters woke up to find their parents dead along with their friend and called 911.
Fullerton Police Department detectives arrested Felix at his Sun Valley home. Acosta was arrested at his barracks at Fort Irwin.
“Two little girls, six and nine, went to sleep not knowing the last time they would see their parents would be when they woke up to find them shot to death,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The trauma inflicted on those little girls compounded by the loss both of their parents in such a violent way is beyond heartbreaking. Violence is never the answer, and a sick and twisted plan turned into life behind bars for two young men.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Seton Hunt of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Frank Sato Felix
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
MAN SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES TRIPLE MURDER OF COUPLE AND THEIR FRIEND
Press
MAN CONVICTED OF SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES TRIPLE MURDER OF COUPLE AND THEIR FRIEND IN FULLERTON
