Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach
Author
Justin Yun
Published
July 9, 2025
Home
Press
Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 9, 2025
Case # 25HF1772
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach
Santa Ana – A 41-year-old Las Vegas man has been charged with felony child abuse and endangerment after a three-year-old relative was rushed to Children’s Hospital of Orange County by ambulance and had to be revived with Narcan after ingesting fentanyl during a Fourth of July weekend family trip to Newport Beach.
Eric Duane Bird, 41, of Las Vegas, has been charged with one felony count of felony child abuse and endangerment and one misdemeanor count of possession of a controlled substance. He faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison if convicted on all counts. Bird has pleaded not guilty and is currently being held in lieu of $100,000 bail.
Bird is accused of travelling from his Las Vegas home with his wife and two teenage children to spend the Fourth of July weekend with his extended family at an Airbnb. After celebrating the Fourth of July at the family Airbnb, a three-year-old relative became extremely itchy and began turning blue and was barely breathing when his parents put him to bed later that night.
The boy’s parents called 911 and paramedics rushed the boy to Children’s Hospital of Orange County by ambulance, administering epinephrine for a possible allergic reaction and then Narcan, after which the toddler began breathing normally again. The toddler tested positive for fentanyl at the hospital.
When Newport Beach police officers searched Bird’s room at the Airbnb, they found a backpack on the ground with a silicone “nectar collector,” which is used for smoking drugs, a container of fentanyl, and burned foil. The backpack, which was on the floor in the bedroom with the door open, was accessible to the three-year-old and other children in the home throughout the holiday weekend.
“Childhood memories of Fourth of July should include fireworks shows, parades, and backyard barbecues, not near-death experiences because a family member cared more about their addiction than the safety of a child,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are grateful for the life-saving measures taken by the Orange County Fire Authority paramedics to prevent another fentanyl-related death, especially the death of an innocent child. We have and will continue to aggressively prosecute fentanyl-related cases in Orange County to send a strong warning to fentanyl dealers and users about the deadly consequences of this drug and the many, many lives that have been stolen from use as a result of fentanyl.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Eric Duane Bird
Family Protection
Fentanyl
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Involuntary Manslaughter Against Aliso Viejo Mother Whose 14-year-old Son Killed Vietnam Veteran While Child was  Illegally Riding an E-motorcycle 16 Times More Powerful than an e-Bike  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Aliso Viejo Mother Charged with Felony Child Endangerment After Vietnam Veteran Critically Injured When He Was Hit by Woman’s 14-Year-old Son Illegally Riding an E-Motorcycle 16 Times  More Powerful than E-Bike Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will  prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Yorba Linda Father Charged with Felony Child Endangerment and Abuse, Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor after 12-Year-old Son was Critically Injured while Illegally Riding E-motorcycle He Helped his Son Modify
