Five-time Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Hit and Run Death of Pedestrian While Under the Influence of Alcohol - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Five-time Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Hit and Run Death of Pedestrian While Under the Influence of Alcohol
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
March 14, 2024
Home
Press
Five-time Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Hit and Run Death of Pedestrian While Under the Influence of Alcohol
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 14, 2024
Case #: 24CF0699
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Five-time Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder
in Hit and Run Death of Pedestrian While Under the Influence of Alcohol
Driver was seen drinking alcohol and flipping officers off
at end of police pursuit following deadly collision
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A five-time convicted DUI driver who was seen drinking alcohol and flipping officers off after hitting and killing a pedestrian in Orange was charged today with murder for killing the man while driving under the influence of alcohol and leading police on a short pursuit.
Jonathan Lopez, 31, of Orange has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of hit and run with permanent injury or death, one felony count of evading while driving recklessly, one felony count of DUI with three or more priors and one felony count of driving with a blood alcohol level of .08% or higher. He also faces one misdemeanor count of driving on a suspended license.
Lopez faces a maximum sentence of 18 years to life in state prison if convicted of all charges.
The victim has not yet been identified.
On March 12, 2024, Lopez was driving in the 500 block of Tustin Avenue in Orange at around 11:15 a.m., when he is accused of hitting a man walking across a street. After striking the man, Lopez is accused of driving away before being located by police a short time later. He then led police on a short high-speed pursuit, running a red light and three stop signs before being arrested.
Lopez has five prior DUI convictions, dating back to 2011. He pleaded guilty in December 2021 to one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol, one felony count of driving with a blood alcohol level of .08% or higher and one misdemeanor count of driving with a suspended license. He was sentenced to 16 months in county jail.
“An innocent man is dead because someone without a license who has been prohibited from driving because of his extensive DUI history decided to ignore every warning he was ever given that drinking and driving can be deadly and get behind the wheel while intoxicated,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is clear this individual has absolutely no regard for human life and no respect for the rule of law. Not even jail time could prevent him from putting his own selfish actions over the lives of everyone else on the road that day. This time he’s being charged with a Watson murder because locking him up for decades is going to be the only way from him killing anyone else.”
A criminal complaint sets forth criminal accusations against a defendant who is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
jonathon Lopez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 3 =
