Former Attorney Sentenced To Life in Prison without the Possibility of Parole for Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Her Overboard - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Attorney Sentenced To Life in Prison without the Possibility of Parole for Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Her Overboard
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 18, 2020
Home
Press
Former Attorney Sentenced To Life in Prison without the Possibility of Parole for Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Her Overboard
Case # 13ZF0163
Former Attorney Sentenced To Life in Prison without the Possibility of Parole for Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Her Body Overboard Cruise Ship
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A judge has sentenced a former attorney to life without the possibility of parole for strangling his ex-wife and throwing her body overboard during a Mediterranean cruise 14 years ago. He carried out the murder to inherit more than $1 million as the beneficiary of several bank accounts and the sale of the couple’s home.
Lonnie Loren Kocontes, 62, of Safety Harbor, Florida, was convicted in June of one count of first-degree murder with a special circumstances enhancement of murder for financial gain. The People are pursuing restitution of nearly $1 million from Kocontes.
Today’s sentencing came more than 14 years after the death of Kocontes’ ex-wife, Micki Kanesaki, while aboard a Mediterranean cruise in 2006.
Kocontes was indicted by a grand jury on June 14, 2013 for the murder of Kanesaki.
“The defendant thought he had planned the perfect crime and lured his prey to her death with a Mediterranean cruise,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “He picked the perfect ship, the perfect state room, and the perfect time to kill his ex-wife. And he almost got away with murder. Except for the fact that he strangled her to death before he threw her body overboard. Because she died before she hit the water her lungs were filled with air, not water.  So she floated.  And by a miracle, her body was discovered. That miscalculation allowed us to convict him of murder. After 14 years, Micki Kanesaki’s family never gave up hope that this day would come and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office never gave up on achieving justice for Micki. “
On May 21, 2006, Kocontes flew with Kanesaki to Spain and boarded a cruise. On May 25, 2006, the couple took a daytime excursion and toured the town of Messina, Italy. The couple returned to the ship and Kanesaki was last seen alive at approximately 11 p.m.
Late on the night of May 25, 2006, or early in the morning of May 26, 2006, Kocontes strangled Kanesaki to death and threw her body overboard into the ocean. He later reported his ex-wife missing.
On the morning of May 27, 2006, Kocontes returned to California. Kanesaki’s body was discovered floating off the coast of Paola, Italy, later that day on the afternoon of May 27, 2006.
Kocontes was accused of financially benefited from the victim’s murder by being the beneficiary of several of their bank accounts and property and receiving the proceeds from the sale of their home.
In 2008, Kocontes attempted to transfer $1 million between various bank accounts which he held with his new wife. The Federal Bureau began investigating the money transfers for possible illegal activity and the United States Attorney’s Office ultimately seized the money from Kocontes’ bank accounts. A civil asset forfeiture case was subsequently filed in the US District Court for the Central District of California.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office filed the murder case against Kocontes on Feb. 13, 2013. OCSD, US Marshals Florida Regional Fugitive Task Force, and Pinellas County Sheriff’s Department investigators arrested the defendant in Safety Harbor, Florida on Feb. 15, 2013.
Assistant District Attorney Susan Price and Senior Deputy District Attorney Seton Hunt of the Homicide Unit are prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Lonnie Loren Kocontes
Murder
Murder for Financial gain
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
