Department of Homeland Security Employee Charged with Molesting Young Girls - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Department of Homeland Security Employee Charged with Molesting Young Girls
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 28, 2022
Home
Press
Department of Homeland Security Employee Charged with Molesting Young Girls
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 28, 2022
Case # 21HF2230
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Department of Homeland Security employee was arrested this week on a $1 million warrant after being charged with molesting two young girls, including one as young as eight years old. The man is also accused of engaging in inappropriate behavior with a third girl.
Terry Edward Keegan, 59, of Irvine, has been charged with three felony counts of lewd and lascivious acts with a child under the age of 14, one felony count of continuous sexual abuse of a child, one misdemeanor count of annoying or molesting a child under the age of 18, and one misdemeanor count of touching an intimate part of another person.
Keegan was arrested Wednesday by the Irvine Police Department on a $1 million warrant. He is scheduled to be arraigned in Department CJ1 on February 8, 2022.
Keegan faces a maximum sentence of 100 years to life if convicted on all counts.
Beginning in 2011, Keegan is accused of molesting an 8-year-old girl who lived next door to the home he shared with his girlfriend and another young girl. Keegan is also accused of molesting the young girl who lived in his home as well as another girl who lived next door to the family after they moved to a new home in 2015.
“The victims in this case showed tremendous courage,” said Irvine Police Chief Michael Kent. “We are hopeful the arrest of this predator brings them some comfort and reassurance.”
“The innocence of children should not be ripped away from them by some monster living next door or even in their own home,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The only monsters in children’s lives should be the ones in bedtime stories and movies, not a living, breathing predator who became the stuff of real-life nightmares for three young girls.”
Deputy District Attorney Juliet Oliver of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case
###
Tagged with:
Child Molestation
lewd and lascivious acts with a minor
Terry Edward Keegan
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Convicted Sex Offender Charged with Molesting Three More Girls he Met while Teaching Elementary School Literacy Program
