20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
September 28, 2022
Home
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 28, 2022
Case #: 22WF2785
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after
Running Over Man She Belie
v
ed Tried to R
un Ove
r Cat
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A 20-year-old woman has been charged with murder after running over a man she believed had tried to run over a cat in Cypress on Sunday. Forty-three-year- old Victor Anthony Luis died as a result of being run over by the woman after she confronted him in the street.
Hannah Star Esser, 20, has been charged with one felony count of murder. She faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted.
Esser is scheduled to be arraigned on October 13, 2022 at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W12. She is being held on $1 million bail.
On Sunday, September 25, 2022, at approximately 8:23 p.m. Esser is accused of driving in the 9700 block of Graham Street in Cypress when she confronted a man she believed was trying to run over a cat in the street.
Esser is accused of getting out of her vehicle and recording the confrontation that included profanity and accusations that the man, later identified as Victor Anthony Luis, was trying to run over the cat. Luis got out of his vehicle to confront Esser in the street.
Esser is accused of getting back in her car, continuing to argue with Luis before driving off. Instead of continuing to drive away from Luis and out of the area, Esser made a 3-point turn and drove back towards Luis in the direction of a cul-de-sac.  Esser then made a U-turn, accelerated and drove directly at Luis.  Esser is accused of intentionally driving into Luis, striking him with the right front of her car.  Luis was launched up onto the hood and windshield and flipped several times before he landed in the street. Luis was pronounced dead at the scene.
“This action showed a complete disregard for human life,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will ensure that this random act of violence targeting a stranger will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dave Porter of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Cypress
Hannah Star Esser
Hit and Run
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Murder in Street Racing Crash that Killed Innocent Driver
