OCDA TO SEEK DEATH PENALTY AGAINST MAN FOR RAPE, SODOMY, AND STABBING-MURDER OF 22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN OUTSIDE OF BAR IN 1983 - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
OCDA TO SEEK DEATH PENALTY AGAINST MAN FOR RAPE, SODOMY, AND STABBING-MURDER OF 22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN OUTSIDE OF BAR IN 1983
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 5, 2011
Home
Press
OCDA TO SEEK DEATH PENALTY AGAINST MAN FOR RAPE, SODOMY, AND STABBING-MURDER OF 22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN OUTSIDE OF BAR IN 1983
For Immediate Release
Case # C-53262
December 5, 2011
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
OCDA TO SEEK DEATH PENALTY AGAINST MAN FOR RAPE, SODOMY, AND STABBING-MURDER OF
22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN OUTSIDE OF BAR IN 1983
*Defendant was previously convicted and sentenced to death, but case was overturned on appeal by federal district judge
SANTA ANA – Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) Tony Rackauckas announced today that he will seek the death penalty against a man for raping, sodomizing, and murdering a 22-year-old woman in an alley behind a bar in 1983. The defendant was previously convicted and sentenced to receive the death penalty in this case in 1985, but his conviction was later overturned by the Federal District Court for the Central District of California on writ of habeas corpus.
Richard Raymond Ramirez, 52, is charged with one felony count of special circumstances murder in the commission of rape and murder in commission of sodomy, one felony count of rape, one felony count of sodomy, and a sentencing enhancement for the personal use of a deadly weapon. Ramirez has a prior conviction for forcible rape in 1978.
Ramirez is scheduled to face a jury trial Jan. 6, 2012, at 9:00 a.m., in Department C-40, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
Circumstances of the Crime
On the night of Nov. 20, 1983, 22-year-old Kim Gonzalez was at Mr. Barry’s bar in Garden Grove. Throughout the night, Gonzalez was seen in the bar with then-24-year-old Ramirez, whom she had met two weeks earlier at the same bar while out with her brother and a friend. The defendant is accused of spending the night drinking, talking, and dancing with, and kissing the victim.
At approximately 1:00 a.m. on Nov. 21, 1983, Gonzalez left the bar through a door that led to the rear parking lot. Ramirez is accused of following Gonzalez outside carrying a long-neck bottle of Budweiser beer. Once outside in a nearby alley, Ramirez is accused of attacking the victim.
Ramirez is accused of raping and sodomizing Gonzalez. He is accused of then murdering her by stabbing her 19 times. One of the stabs went through her neck, severing the victim’s spinal cord. After murdering the defendant, Ramirez is accused of fleeing the scene.
Gonzalez’s body was found in the alley at approximately 6:00 a.m. on Nov. 21, 1983. The victim was naked from the waist down with her pants and underwear pulled down near her ankles and knees.
Fingerprints were later retrieved from a Budweiser beer bottle15 feet from the victim’s body. The defendant is accused of leaving his fingerprints on that bottle found in the alley.
Semen was collected from the scene from the rape and sodomy of the victim. While DNA testing did not exist in 1983, medical experts at the time determined using available scientific methods that 60 percent of the male population, including defendant, could have been the source of the semen.
The Garden Grove Police Department investigated this case.
Previous Conviction and Death Penalty Sentence
Ramirez was found guilty by a jury in March 1985 of first degree murder, rape, sodomy, and the special circumstances of murder in the commission of rape and murder in the commission of sodomy. The OCDA sought the death penalty at that time. The first jury was unable to reach a unanimous decision, and a second jury in a re-trial of the penalty phase determined that Ramirez should be sentenced to death. Ramirez was sentenced to the death penalty on July 26, 1985.
The original trial and penalty phase was prosecuted by former Deputy District Attorney and current Superior Court Judge, the Honorable Thomas Goethals.
Ramirez appealed to the California Supreme Court, who affirmed the defendant’s conviction in June 1990. The defendant ultimately filed a writ of habeas corpus to the Federal District Court for the Central District of California.
During pendency of federal proceedings, Ramirez was linked to the murder of Gonzalez through DNA using technology that was not available in 1983.
In February 2008, Federal District Court Judge Consuelo Marshall overturned Ramirez’s conviction as to both the guilt phase in the first trial and penalty phase in the second trial. She opined that a juror in the original guilt phase trial failed to reveal he had filed an application to be a law enforcement officer, even though he was never asked by the defense attorney.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Larry Yellin of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
