Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
August 15, 2022
Home
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 15, 2022
Case #: 22CF2133
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Santa Ana youth sports coach has been charged with multiple felonies for molesting an underage girl he trained at STARS sports. Authorities believe there may be additional victims and are asking anyone with information about Christopher Flores, who went by the name Coach Frogg, to contact the Santa Ana Police Department.
Christopher Flores, 37, has been charged with four felony counts of lewd acts upon a child aged 14 or 15 and two felony count of sexual penetration by a foreign object of a victim under the age of 16. He faces a maximum sentence of six years and four months in state prison if convicted.
Flores is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $500,000 bail.
Flores is accused of molesting a 15-year-old athlete at STARS from January 2021 through December 2021.
“This predator used his position of trust as a coach and athletic director to prey on children for his own sexual satisfaction,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These athletes were there to train in an effort to excel at their sport, not to be victimized by a pedophile. What happened to this young girl is horrific and the youth sports community as a whole has been victimized by the actions of a grown man who not only abused his victim but abused that position of trust.”
Anyone with additional information about Flores or additional potential victims is asked to contact Santa Ana Police Detective Matthew Thomas of the Special Crimes Section at
Mthomas@santa-ana.org
Deputy District Attorney Sarah Rahman of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Child Molestation
Christopher Flores
Lewd Acts upon a Child
Molesting
Sexual Penetration of Foreign Object
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Convicted of Multiple Felonies for Molesting Child Athletes
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years - Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims
