Former Villa Park High School Student Charged With Hacking Into Student Google Classroom Accounts to Post Racist and Homophobic Messages and Videos - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Villa Park High School Student Charged With Hacking Into Student Google Classroom Accounts to Post Racist and Homophobic Messages and Videos
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 16, 2021
Home
Press
Former Villa Park High School Student Charged With Hacking Into Student Google Classroom Accounts to Post Racist and Homophobic Messages and Videos
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 16, 2021
Case # 21CF3575
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Villa Park High School student has been charged with illegally hacking into student Google Classroom accounts in order to post racist and homophobic photos and comments in the class announcement section. Multiple student accounts were hacked in order to interrupt two classes with a video filled with racist rants.
Aaron Ketelaar, 19, of Orange, has been charged with one felony count of unauthorized computer access along with a felony hate crime enhancement. He faces a maximum sentence of seven years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
“No one should be subjected to the kind of racist and homophobic messages sent by these hackers under the pretense of being sent by fellow classmates. The anonymity of the Internet is assisting haters in finding other like-minded people to help them carry out their racist acts in the hopes that they will be able to slink away into the depths of the Internet without their true identities being revealed,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Our schools – whether they are online or in person – must be safe havens for our children to learn and thrive. These online chat functions are essentially inviting strangers into our homes to interact with our children – and parents must be aware of their children’s online activities and the predators and haters that are using the Internet to prey on our children in order to recruit more haters.”
On December 18, 2020, several student Google Classroom accounts at Villa Park High School posted racist photos and comments in the class announcement section which were viewable by the teacher and all students in that class.  A hacked student account was also used to interrupt two classes with a video of a person wearing a skull mask, sunglasses, beanie, and headset espousing racial epithets.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department SMART team was assigned to investigate in conjunction with Orange UniField’s IT Department after the hacked posts were reported in January 2021.
Ketelaar was identified by investigators as accessing the students’ accounts during the same time the offensive posts and videos were being posted.
Deputy District Attorney David McMurrin of the Hate Crimes Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Aaron Ketelaar
Hate Crime
Homophobia
Racism
Unauthorized Computer Access
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
