Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 9, 2026
Home
Press
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 9, 2026
Case #: 17NF2919
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Sergeant Matt Sutter
Public Information Officer
Anaheim Police Department
714-321-6807
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival
Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special
Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man wanted for murder who has been on the run for the last eight years has been extradited from Mexico back to the United States to face special circumstances murder charges for stabbing his ex-girlfriend’s new boyfriend to death after waiting for him to leave the woman’s Anaheim apartment in 2017. A co-defendant is currently serving 15 years to life sentence after pleading guilty to second-degree murder for his role in the murder.
Humberto Rodriguez Martinez, now 39, was wanted on a $2 million warrant for his arrest after Orange County prosecutors charged him in 2017 with the special circumstances lying in wait murder of 32-year-old Daniel Reyes. Martinez was charged with one felony count of murder, one felony enhancement of special circumstance lying in wait, and one felony enhancement of personal use of a weapon, a knife.
Martinez, who fled to Mexico after stabbing Reyes to death, was located by Mexican authorities with the assistance of the U.S. Marshals Service in 2024 and arrested at the request of the United States. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office worked with the U.S. Marshals Service, the Department of Justice’s Office of International Affairs, and the Anaheim Police Department to return Martinez to Orange County to face special circumstances murder charges.
On December 4, 2025, Martinez was extradited to the United States. Anaheim police homicide detectives took custody of Rodriguez-Martinez from United States Marshals Service deputies at Los Angeles International Airport.
As part of the international extradition process, and in compliance with the Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) requirements, Martinez, a citizen of Mexico who was in the United States illegally at the time of the murder, must remain in U.S. custody while his case is being litigated.
“This arrest does not undo the pain the victim’s family has endured, but it reinforces our commitment and promise to our community: we will never stop working until justice is served,” said Anaheim Police Chief Manny Cid.
“The pursuit of justice will never be derailed by time or distance,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The long arm of Orange County law enforcement reaches to every corner of the earth to ensure the full weight of the law is felt by those who commit the most heinous acts of violence against other human beings. We are grateful for the incredible work of our investigators and prosecutors and of our partners, both domestic and international, for their assistance in tracking down a wanted murder and bringing him back to Orange County to face the consequences of his actions.”
On October 17, 2017, Martinez, 30, of Anaheim, and his friend Adan Zapot-Leyva, 28, of Anaheim, went to the apartment of Martinez’ ex-girlfriend to watch Martinez’ two children while their mother went to work. Martinez and the woman had broken up several months earlier but continued to co-parent their two children.
The two men left the apartment at about 8:30 p.m. when the children’s mother returned home from work. The woman’s new boyfriend, Daniel Reyes, arrived at the apartment about half an hour later.
Anaheim police were called to the intersection of Santa Ana Street and Helena Street after witnesses saw two men chasing Reyes and one of the men stabbing him. Officers found Reyes bleeding from multiple stab wounds and he was pronounced dead.
Zapot-Leyva was arrested two days later and sentenced to 15 years to life after he pled guilty in 2023 to one felony count of second-degree murder.
On January 6, 2026, Rodriguez-Martinez pleaded not guilty in Orange County Superior Court. He is currently being held on no bail.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Homicide
Humberto Rodriguez Martinez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
