Former Santa Ana College Instructor Charged With Molesting 15-year-old Student - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Former Santa Ana College Instructor Charged With Molesting 15-year-old Student
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 8, 2020
Home
Press
Former Santa Ana College Instructor Charged With Molesting 15-year-old Student
Case# 20 CF0010
Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional victims
George Moreno
Santa Ana, Calif. – A former Santa Ana College welding instructor has been charged with four felonies for molesting a 15-year-old high school student enrolled in his class. Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying other possible victims of the instructor who taught at several high schools and community colleges across Southern California.
Santa Ana Police Special Crimes Section detectives arrested George Moreno, 59, of Cherry Valley, at Alessandro High School in the City of Hemet on January 7, 2020. He is currently employed through the Riverside County Office of Education as a welding instructor at the high school.
Moreno has been charged with four felony counts of lewd acts with a 15-year-old child. He faces a maximum sentence of five years if convicted. He was released from the Orange County Jail after posting $50,000 bail.
Moreno was a welding instructor at Santa Ana College from 2007 to 2018. Students from Santa Ana Middle College High School, which is part of the Santa Ana Unified School District, were enrolled in his class during that time.
In August 2019, a woman reported to Santa Ana police that she had been sexually molested by Moreno beginning in 2015, when she was 15 years old. The victim reported numerous incidents that occurred on campus over a three-year period.
“Teachers are entrusted with our most precious resource – our children,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Classrooms should be safe place where children can learn – not hunting grounds for predators.”
Authorities are asking for anyone with additional information to contact Santa Ana Police Detective Gerry Corona at 714-245-8343,
Gcorona@santa-ana.org
or Orange County Crime Stoppers at 1-855-TIP-OCCS.
Deputy District Attorney Devin Crowley of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Child Molestation
George Moreno
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Department of Homeland Security Employee Charged with Molesting Young Girls
