Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
February 23, 2021
Home
Press
Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 23, 2021
Case# 18CF2485
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation of City Manager
Prosecutors objected to court offer that allowed former officer
to have crime expunged from his record if diversion terms are met
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Fullerton police sergeant was sentenced to pre-trial diversion for lying in a police report about an investigation into a DUI accident involving then-Fullerton City Manager Joe Felz in 2016. Prosecutors had charged the former police officer with a felony for lying in a police report that the city manager was not intoxicated at the time of the crash and objected to the court offer for pre-trial diversion.
Rodger Jeffrey Corbett, 48, of Corona, was sentenced Monday to pre-trial diversion by an Orange County superior court judge. Instead of entering a guilty plea, the court offer allows Corbett to complete the terms of the offer and then have his case removed from his record as if it never happened.
The court offer includes 80 hours community service, a $500 payment to victim witness, and a requirement that he no longer work in law enforcement. If all the terms are met, Corbett can request the case be dismissed after a year.
New state law that went into effect January 1, 2021 gives judges the discretion to put defendants in pre-trial diversion, regardless of whether prosecutors object.
“As prosecutors, we are filing charges that hold police officers who break the law accountable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “But those attempts to hold peace officers accountable are handcuffed by efforts by the state Legislature and the bench to downgrade these crimes to a point where it is as if they never happened. Law enforcement officers wield incredible power and when they abuse that power and engage in cover-ups and perpetuate different systems of justice for people based on their political connections, they must be held accountable.”
On November 9, 2016, at approximately 1:30 a.m., officers with the Fullerton Police Department were dispatched to a single vehicle traffic accident.
When they arrived, officers found Fullerton City Manager Joseph Felz attempting to drive his disabled vehicle away from the scene of the accident. Officers noted Felz showed objective symptoms of intoxication.
Due to Mr. Felz’s position as City Manager, Sgt. Corbett was called to handle the investigation to determine if Mr. Felz was driving under the influence of alcohol. Sergeant Corbett conducted a cursory examination of Mr. Felz, concluded he was not under the influence of alcohol, and drove him home. In a subsequent police report, Corbett memorialized his determination that Felz was not under the influence.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office filed misdemeanor driving under the influence charges against Felz. The former city manager pled guilty to one count of misdemeanor reckless driving and admitted he had in fact been driving under the influence.
Deputy District Attorney Frank Acosta of Special Prosecutions prosecuted this case.
###
Tagged with:
DUI
False Report
Rodger Jeffrey Corbett
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Street Racing Murder that Killed Innocent Driver
Press
Former Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Plead Guilty to Filing a False Police Report
Press
FULLERTON POLICE SERGEANT CHARGED WITH FILING A FALSE REPORT WHILE ON DUTY
