Buena Park Man Convicted of Sexually Assaulting Toddler - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Buena Park Man Convicted of Sexually Assaulting Toddler
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 2, 2020
Home
Press
Buena Park Man Convicted of Sexually Assaulting Toddler
Case #16NF2748
Social distancing for jurors allowed trial to continue despite COVID-19 pandemic
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A jury convicted a 23-year-old Buena Park man of sexually assaulting a two-year-old girl while he babysat her in 2016. Closing arguments were allowed to be given in front of a jury despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Arthur William Robert Callender was convicted on April 1, 2020 of two felony counts of sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 10.
Callender faces fifty years to life in state prison. He is scheduled to be sentenced on June 12, 2020 in Department C44 at the Central Justice Center.
Callender was arrested in October 2016 after officers working on a Task Force with the Department of Homeland Security launched an investigation into several inappropriate internet postings involving a female toddler.
Callender’s trial was ongoing when the Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court issued an unprecedented order on March 23, 2020 suspending jury trials be suspended for 60 days. Given the serious nature of the crimes and the advanced stage of Callender’s trial, Orange County Superior Court Judge Andre Manssourian found good cause to exempt Callender’s trial from the suspension order.
Fourteen of the 16 jurors empaneled for the case – 12 jurors and two alternates – returned to court on April 1, 2020 to hear closing arguments.
Social distancing was enforced, with jurors being spread out across the entire courtroom instead of being restricted to the jury box. Many of the people in the courtroom wore masks.
Jurors were taken to a separate courtroom to deliberate where the same social distancing measures were enforced. After an hour of deliberation, the jury returned a guilty verdict on both felony counts.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is incredibly grateful to the jurors for their commitment to the criminal justice system,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Despite the challenges of dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, these men and women came to court, considered the evidence, and returned a verdict that will keep this monster behind bars for decades. Their selflessness will prevent him from victimizing other children.”
Assistant District Attorney Kal Kaliban, head of the Sexual Assault Unit, and Deputy District Attorney Courtney Thom prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Aggravated Sexual Assault of a Minor
Arthur William Robert Callender
Child Pornography
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
Press
Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years - Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims
