Homeless Woman Charged With Attempted Murder for Trying to Throw 13-year-old Boy Off Crown Valley Bridge - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Homeless Woman Charged With Attempted Murder for Trying to Throw 13-year-old Boy Off Crown Valley Bridge
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 27, 2019
Home
Press
Homeless Woman Charged With Attempted Murder for Trying to Throw 13-year-old Boy Off Crown Valley Bridge
Case #19HF1167
Defendant is also accused of attempting to push a runner into traffic and punching another runner in the face
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 23-year-old homeless woman was charged with attempting to throw a 13-year-old cross country runner off the Crown Valley Bridge and assaulting two of his teammates during a training run on Friday, August 23.
Stephanie Rose Redondo, 23, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder with an enhancement of premeditation and deliberation, and one misdemeanor count each of battery and assault. Redondo was arrested by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department. She is currently being held at the Central Women’s Jail on $500,000 bail.
Members of the Capistrano Valley High School cross country team were running on the sidewalk near Crown Valley Bridge around 4 p.m. on August 26. Redondo is accused of lunging at one of the teenage runners in an attempt to push him into traffic.
She is then accused of putting a 13-year-old runner in a headlock and attempting to push him over the bridge to the rocks hundreds of feet below. Redondo is then accused of punching a 14-year-old runner who came at her. The teenagers managed to escape.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the County of Orange has extensive services and programs to help assist the homeless and mentally ill. Help is available,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Homeless individuals who refuse help and instead choose to commit crimes and victimize other people will be prosecuted. No one in our county should be forced to put up with someone who chooses to be a danger and a menace to our society.”
This case is being prosecuted by Deputy District Attorney Laila Nikaien of the Special Prosecutions Unit.
Tagged with:
Assault
Attempted Murder
Battery
Premeditation and Deliberation
Stephanie Rose Redondo
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
