Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Media Advisory
Press
2 min read
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
November 19, 2019
Home
Press
Media Advisory
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO
: Orange County Gang Reduction Intervention Partnership (OC GRIP), Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Garden Grove Police Chief Tom Dare, Garden Grove Unified School District Superintendent Dr. Gabriela Mafi, and representatives from Ralphs and Food 4 Less.
WHAT
: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day for elementary and middle school students.
Orange County prosecutors along with police and probation officers will join volunteers from Saddleback Church, Ralphs, and Food 4 Less to distribute 1,000 Thanksgiving meals to OC GRIP students across Orange County in recognition of their dedication to improve their school attendance and grades and say no to gangs.
These meals were generously donated by Ralphs and Food 4 Less.
Members of the media are invited to attend a special school ceremony at Clinton Elementary School on Wednesday, November 20, 2019 at 3 p.m. to watch as OC GRIP students and parents from Clinton Elementary and Doig Middle School are awarded a complete Thanksgiving dinner including a turkey, mashed potatoes, stuffing, yams and more.
OC GRIP is a partnership of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, local law enforcement, and community partners working together to keep kids out of gangs. OC GRIP provides education and resources to families throughout Orange County, including exposure to positive role models and mentoring by members of the community.
WHEN:
Wednesday, November 20, 2019, at 3 p.m.
WHERE:
Clinton Elementary School, 13641 Clinton Street, Garden Grove, CA 92843
Participants will be made available for interviews following the ceremony.
Tagged with:
Media Advisory
OC GRIP
Thanksgiving
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
