MEDIA ADVISORY: Investigation Into A Series Of Poisonings Targeting Homeless Individuals In The City Of Huntington Beach - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Media Advisory
Press
2 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY: Investigation Into A Series Of Poisonings Targeting Homeless Individuals In The City Of Huntington Beach
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 29, 2020
Home
Press
Media Advisory
MEDIA ADVISORY: Investigation Into A Series Of Poisonings Targeting Homeless Individuals In The City Of Huntington Beach
Case# 20WF1167
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO
:   Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Huntington Beach Mayor Lyn Semeta, Huntington Beach City Attorney Michael Gates, Huntington Beach Police Chief Robert Handy, and Orange County Board of Supervisors Chairwoman Michelle Steel.
WHAT
: The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will hold a joint press conference with the City of Huntington Beach and the County of Orange to discuss the investigation into a series of poisonings targeting homeless individuals in the City of Huntington Beach. Homeless individuals were poisoned with food laced with oleoresin capsicum, which is twice as strong as the pepper spray used by police, and their reactions to the poisoned food were filmed. The victims suffered a variety of symptoms including seizure-like symptoms, difficulty breathing, vomiting, and intense mouth and stomach pain. Several of the victims required hospitalization.
This is an ongoing investigation.
WHEN: Monday, June 1, 2020 at 10 a.m.
Doors will open at 9:30 a.m.
WHERE:
Orange County District Attorney’s Office, 401 Civic Center Drive W., Santa Ana, CA 92701, first floor Law Library
A pool camera will be available for broadcast media. The press conference will also be live streamed on Facebook – facebook.com/ocdatoddspitzer
A media call-in line is available for credentialed media and will be provided upon request to
media@da.ocgov.com
. Reporters are encouraged to call in at 9:50 a.m. to receive instructions on asking questions from the conference line moderator.
Members of the media can attend in person. Social distancing will be in place.
Tagged with:
contributing to the delinquency of a minor
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Elder Abuse
Media Advisory
Poison
William Robert Cable
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
