Former Orange County Chef Charged With Raping Member of the Military - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Former Orange County Chef Charged With Raping Member of the Military
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 11, 2019
Home
Press
Former Orange County Chef Charged With Raping Member of the Military
Former Orange County Chef Charged With Raping Member of the Military
Seal Beach, Calif. – A former Orange County chef pleaded not guilty today with raping a member of the military in 2018 after she dined at the Seal Beach restaurant where he worked.
Darryl Lee Matanane, 55, of Seal Beach, was arrested on August 30, 2019 in Midland, Texas. Matanane was originally identified as a suspect in the sexual assault on February 18, 2018 and arrested. He was released with a request for further investigation.
After further investigation, a warrant was issued for Matanane’s arrest. He was arrested and subsequently extradited to Orange County by the Seal Beach Police Department on September 13, 2019 and he is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail.
Matanane has been charged with six felony counts in connection with the February 2018 sexual assault, including one felony count of rape by use of drugs, one felony count of rape of an unconscious person, one felony count of sodomy of an unconscious person, one felony count of sodomy by anesthesia or a controlled substance, one felony count of sexual penetration of an unconscious victim, and one felony count of sexual penetration by intoxicating or controlled substance.
“The Seal Beach Police Department and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office worked diligently to ensure that this perpetrator will be held accountable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
“I want to commend prosecutors from the Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the Seal Beach Police Investigators for diligently pursuing justice for the victim,” said Seal Beach Police Chief Joe Miller.
Deputy District Attorney Ann Fawaz of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Darryl Lee Matanane
Rape
Rape by use of Drugs
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
