Ending OC’s Rape Kit Backlog: Supervisor Wagner and DA Spitzer Secure Funds to Help Survivors - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Ending OC’s Rape Kit Backlog: Supervisor Wagner and DA Spitzer Secure Funds to Help Survivors
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 20, 2020
Home
Press
Ending OC’s Rape Kit Backlog: Supervisor Wagner and DA Spitzer Secure Funds to Help Survivors
Ending OC’s Rape Kit Backlog:  Supervisor Wagner and DA Spitzer Secure Funds to Help Survivors
Supervisor Don Wagner and District Attorney Todd Spitzer have committed to working together to clear a 30-year backlog of sexual assault kits
“Because rape kit DNA testing can bring closure to the victims of these horrible crimes, we cannot accept continued delays when the resources are available to us,” said Supervisor Wagner. “The County is committed to ending the backlog, and I am ready to end the backlog. I thank District Attorney Todd Spitzer for his swift action in securing the funds to help make this important public safety measure a reality.”
As part of the solution, District Attorney Spitzer is bringing before the Board of Supervisors a contract with a third-party vendor for Sexual Assault Kit testing services for $612,000; grant money that will assist in clearing about 50% of the gap. The contract is coming to the Board at its meeting scheduled on February 11, 2020. Following Supervisor Wagner’s direction and Board approval, DA Spitzer will revise the contract to include the $400,000 in 14J funding as a solution to complete the entire backlog.
“Clearing the backlog of sexual assault kits has been a priority of mine since I was a County Supervisor, and I have doubled down on that commitment,” said District Attorney Spitzer. “The District Attorney’s Office is fully invested in getting these untested kits tested to provide these victims justice and a safer Orange County. I am pleased Supervisor Wagner requested the additional funds needed to close the backlog gap.”
“Ensuring public safety is a core function of government,” Wagner added. “Both DA Spitzer and I are dedicated to that principle. It does no good to have these rape kits aging on a shelf somewhere. They contain crucial information to solve yesterday’s crimes and to assist law enforcement in the prevention of future crimes.”
Public safety is critical to both Supervisor Wagner and DA Spitzer. Testing a rape kit is only the first step in the rung of justice. If you or a loved one is a victim of sexual assault, please do not shower or bathe as not to remove vital DNA evidence — immediately go to your nearest hospital.
Tagged with:
Rape
Rape kit
Victim's
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
Media Advisory
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: Orange County District Attorney, Sheriff to Provide Critical Update on Search for Aliso Viejo Serial Rapist
Press
Woman, Man Convicted of Human Trafficking, Pimping
