District Attorney Spitzer Announces Creation of New Hate Crimes Unit - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
District Attorney Spitzer Announces Creation of New Hate Crimes Unit
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 11, 2021
Home
Press
District Attorney Spitzer Announces Creation of New Hate Crimes Unit
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 11, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
District Attorney Spitzer Announces Creation of New Hate Crimes Unit
SANTA ANA, Calif. –The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is proud to announce the creation of its Hate Crimes Unit.
This new unit will be overseen by the office’s Special Prosecutions, an elite unit within the District Attorney’s Office dedicated to seeking justice in the highest profile cases. The Hate Crimes Unit will be dedicated to prosecuting crimes in which the perpetrators acted based on a bias against the victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or gender.
The newly created unit is staffed by three prosecutors, two investigators, and is supervised by the head of Special Prosecutions.
Since January 2019, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has prosecuted more than twice the number of hate crimes that compared to the number of hate crimes prosecuted in the previous 25 years by prior administrations.
Anti-Asian hate crimes increased by nearly 150% in 2020 in America’s major cities according to a recent analysis released by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino.
In addition to prosecuting hate crimes, the Hate Crimes Unit will focus on increased community education as well as training for law enforcement on how to effectively investigate hate crimes so that those cases can be successfully prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
Many victims of hate crimes are reluctant to report due to mistrust of law enforcement and language and cultural barriers. Community outreach and education is a critical component to ensuring those who commit hate-motivated crimes are held accountable as well as sending a strong message that hate crimes will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
“I have made the prosecution of hate crimes a centerpiece of my administration because of the devastation hate crimes cause to the individual victim as well as the entire community,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We cannot change who we are and no one should be targeted and victimized because of who they are, how they look, or who they love. The beauty of Orange County is found in its diversity. Hate will not be tolerated here. By working to educate our communities, better training our law enforcement officers, and sending a strong message to haters that hate-motivated crimes will not be tolerated, we are preventing hate crimes from ever occurring and when they do occur we are standing up for victims and holding haters accountable.”
###
Tagged with:
Hate Crime
Hate crimes unit
media announcement
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
