Documented White Supremacist Gang Member with Six Prior Strikes Charged with Murder in Connection with High-speed Police Pursuit That Killed Innocent Bystander, Seriously Injured Two Others Pursuit Began After Defendant Set Fire to Fountain Valley Home over Child Custody Dispute - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Documented White Supremacist Gang Member with Six Prior Strikes Charged with Murder in Connection with High-speed Police Pursuit That Killed Innocent Bystander, Seriously Injured Two Others Pursuit Began After Defendant Set Fire to Fountain Valley Home over Child Custody Dispute
Author
Chase Healy
Published
December 5, 2024
Home
Press
Documented White Supremacist Gang Member with Six Prior Strikes Charged with Murder in Connection with High-speed Police Pursuit That Killed Innocent Bystander, Seriously Injured Two Others Pursuit Began After Defendant Set Fire to Fountain Valley Home over Child Custody Dispute
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 5, 2024
Case #: 24WF3411
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Documented White Supremacist Gang Member with Six Prior Strikes Charged with Murder
in Connection with High-speed Police Pursuit That Killed Innocent Bystander, Seriously Injured Two Others
Pursuit Began After Defendant Set Fire to Fountain Valley Home over Child Custody Dispute
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A documented white supremacist gang member with six prior strikes has been charged with murder in connection with a high-speed police pursuit that left an innocent bystander dead, and two others seriously injured. The pursuit began after the defendant set fire to the Fountain Valley home of his sister’s fiancé in apparent retaliation for losing custody of his children after his sister called child protective services.
Timothy Bradford Cole II, 43, of Huntington Beach, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of evading a peace officer causing death, two felony counts of evading a peace officer causing serious injury, one felony count of arson of an inhabited structure, and one felony enhancement of arson with use of an acceleration device.
He faces a maximum sentence of 70 years to life plus 48 years and eight months in state prison if convicted. Cole is scheduled to be arraigned on December 20, 2024, at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W12.
On Monday, December 2, 2024, Cole is accused of using an accelerant to set a bush at the home of his sister’s fiancé on fire, causing the porch to be singed. An occupant of the home and a neighbor were able to put the fire out.
Two hours later, Fountain Valley police located Cole as he returned to his car parked near the site of the arson fire. Police attempted to conduct a traffic stop, but Cole drove off, initiating a short 1.4-mile police pursuit.
Cole is accused of driving nearly 90 miles an hour when he ran a red light at the intersection of Ellis Avenue and Magnolia Street just before 11 p.m., hitting a BMW X3 traveling southbound on Magnolia and causing Cole’s vehicle to roll over. Twenty-five year-old Hong Ngoc Nguyen, who was visiting from Vietnam, was riding in the backseat and was killed. The driver of the BMW suffered fractures to her spine and pelvis and her passenger suffered a broken arm.
“No one could have predicted that a series of events set in motion by a complete stranger would turn Miss Nguyen’s American vacation into an American nightmare,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Words do not exist to express the utter heartbreak over the death of a young woman who found herself in the path of someone with complete disregard for human life and we will do everything we can to get justice for Miss Nguyen and her loved ones.”
Deputy District Attorney Devin Campbell of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Homicide
Timothy Bradford Cole II
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
