Coworker Charged With Killing Retired Cal State Fullerton Administrator on College Campus - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Coworker Charged With Killing Retired Cal State Fullerton Administrator on College Campus
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 23, 2019
Home
Press
Coworker Charged With Killing Retired Cal State Fullerton Administrator on College Campus
Case # 19CF2327
Coworker Charged With Killing Retired Cal State Fullerton Administrator on College Campus
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 51-year-old Huntington Beach man has been charged with lying in wait and stabbing an administrator at Cal State University, Fullerton to death on Monday.
Steven Shek Keung Chan, 57, of Hacienda Heights was in a CSUF parking lot off Nutwood Avenue around 8:30 a.m. Monday when he was stabbed to death. The attacker was captured on surveillance footage as he made his escape.
Fullerton police released still photos of surveillance footage and a sketch of the suspect in order to identify him. Chuyen Van Vo was arrested late Wednesday.
Vo was charged today with one felony count of murder, an enhancement for the personal use of a knife and a special circumstance allegation of lying in wait.
Vo faces a minimum sentence of life without the possibility of parole.
Chan, a retired administrator who had returned to CSUF to work as a consultant, and Vo were co-workers.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office extends its deepest sympathies to the loved ones of Steven Shek Keung Chan,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Titan community lost a beloved member of its family as a result of this senseless act. Schools should be safe havens for students to learn and thrive. Cal State Fullerton has made it clear that the safety of their students, faculty, and visitors remains their top priority.”
Vo appeared in court today in CJ 1. His arraignment was continued until October 4 in C57 at the Central Justice Center.
He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail without bail.
Tagged with:
Chuyen Van Vo
Murder
Personal use of a Knife
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Cal State Fullerton Employee Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Stabbing His Boss to Death in Campus Parking Lot
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
