Newport Beach Man Charged After Pulling Gun on Black Lives Matter Protester - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Newport Beach Man Charged After Pulling Gun on Black Lives Matter Protester
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 14, 2020
Home
Press
Newport Beach Man Charged After Pulling Gun on Black Lives Matter Protester
Case #20HM07836
Newport Beach Man Charged After Pulling Gun on Black Lives Matter Protester
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Newport Beach man has been charged with two misdemeanors for waving a loaded gun at Black Lives protestors while screaming racial slurs during a Newport Beach protest in June. The confrontation was captured on video.
Travis Patrick White, 48, of Newport Beach is being charged with one misdemeanor count of brandishing a firearm in public and one misdemeanor count of possession of a loaded firearm in a public place. White faces up to two years in the Orange County Jail if convicted on both charges.
He is scheduled to appear at the Harbor Justice Center on October 20, 2020 to be arraigned.
On June 4, 2020, White was seen yelling at Black Lives Matter protesters. White exchanged words with one of the protestors who confronted him about the slurs he was using. White is accused of pulling out a loaded semi-automatic handgun from his backpack, cocking it and pointing it up in the air.
No one was injured during the confrontation.
“It is scary that someone who disagrees with your right to express yourself freely during a peaceful protest would elevate that to the level of lethal force. That should cause all of us alarm,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.  “This individual brought a gun to a peaceful protest. He was looking for a confrontation and when confronted with opinions that he disagrees with he pulled out his gun.  That is not the America we want and those actions will not be tolerated. The freedom of speech and the right to peacefully protest are rights afforded to all Americans and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will always protect the public’s right to be heard.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
BLM
Brandishing Firearm in Public
Possession of loaded firearm
Travis Patrick White
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 4 =
