Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged With Filing a False Police Report - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged With Filing a False Police Report
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 9, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged With Filing a False Police Report
Case #20CF2469
Deputy accused of taking theft suspect’s credit card and giving it to her son to use
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Sheriff’s deputy has been charged in connection with taking a credit card from a suspect and giving it to her son who then used the card.
Angelina Cortez, 41, has been charged with one felony count of filing a false police report. She faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison if convicted.
Cortez was assigned to a training officer on November 19, 2018 when she and her training officer responded to a call of a man stealing wine and batteries from a San Clemente 7-Eleven store. Cortez is accused of taking the theft suspect’s debit card, putting it in her uniform shirt pocket and later giving it to her son, who then used it. The card was never booked into evidence.
Cortez is scheduled to be arraigned on November 18, 2020. She is on administrative leave from the Sheriff’s Department.
“The public has an absolute expectation that their law enforcement officers will carry out their duties lawfully,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “When laws are broken by the very people who are sworn to uphold them, the public trust is eroded and society as a whole suffers. The entire criminal justice system relies on the trust that those sworn to uphold the law are following it themselves.”
Tagged with:
Angelina Cortez
Credit Card
False Police Report
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Convicted of Filing a False Police Report
Press
Anaheim Police Officer Charged with Perjury, Filing a False Police Report
