Orange County Superior Court Judge Sentenced to Thirty-Five Years to Life for Murdering His Wife During Drunken Argument over Money - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Orange County Superior Court Judge Sentenced to Thirty-Five Years to Life for Murdering His Wife During Drunken Argument over Money
Author
Chase Healy
Published
September 17, 2025
Home
Press
Orange County Superior Court Judge Sentenced to Thirty-Five Years to Life for Murdering His Wife During Drunken Argument over Money
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 17, 2025
Case # 23NF1975
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County Superior Court Judge Sentenced to Thirty-Five Years to Life for Murdering His Wife During Drunken Argument over Money
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Superior Court judge has been sentenced to 35 years to life for shooting his 65-year-old wife to death in their Anaheim Hills home in August 2023 after a drunken argument over money.
Instead of rendering aid to his wife, Sheryl, after shooting her as they sat in their living room watching television, Judge Jeffrey Ferguson, then 72, went outside and texted his court bailiff and clerk, “I just lost it. I just shot my wife. I won’t be in tomorrow. I will be in custody. I’m so sorry.”
The couple’s 22-year-old son, who tackled his father to wrestle the gun away from him after the shooting, was left inside performing CPR on his mother while being directed by emergency dispatchers.
Jurors rejected Ferguson’s testimony that he accidentally shot his wife and convicted him in April 2025 of one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of personal use of a firearm and one felony enhancement of discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death.
Ferguson was arrested on Thursday, August 3, 2023, by the Anaheim Police Department after his adult son called 911 shortly after 8 p.m. to report his mother had been shot after she told his father “Why don’t you point a real gun at me?” Ferguson had also simulated pointing a gun at his wife of 27 years using his fingers during an argument at dinner with his wife and son at a nearby Mexican restaurant shortly before the murder.
Ferguson was released from custody by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department the next day after posting the court’s adopted bail schedule of $1 million. In September 2024, Ferguson had his bail revoked and was taken back into custody after his court-ordered alcohol monitor reported that he had consumed alcohol in violation of the terms of his release and a judge determined that he had lied about his unlawful consumption of alcohol. He was subsequently released after posting a $2 million bond.
Ferguson has served as an Orange County Superior Court Judge since 2015. Prior to being elected to the Orange County Superior Court, he served as a prosecutor in the Orange County District Attorney’s Office beginning in 1983.
Immediately upon being notified that a former employee of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office had been arrested on suspicion of murder in Orange County, the District Attorney’s Office contacted the California Attorney General’s Office to request a conflict check. After a thorough review of the situation, the Attorney General’s Office on Tuesday, August 8, declared the Orange County District Attorney’s Office does not have a conflict and could prosecute the case.
Police recovered 48 weapons – including rifles, shotguns, and handguns, and more than 26,000 rounds of ammunition – from his home during the execution of a search warrant.
“This was not an accident; it was murder. Lady Justice is blindfolded, impervious of any attempts to sway her judgement in favor of someone who once held the position of immense trust as a judge and held the fate of the accused in his own hands. While we mourn the tragic loss of Sheryl at the hands of her own husband, we also grieve the tarnish this crime has brought to the judiciary and to the legal profession as a whole by someone who went from wielding the sword of justice to committing the ultimate act of evil.”
Senior Deputy District Attorneys Seton Hunt and Casey Cunningham prosecuted this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Homicide
Jeffrey Ferguson
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
