Garden Grove Man Charged With Killing Mother - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Garden Grove Man Charged With Killing Mother
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 12, 2019
Home
Press
Garden Grove Man Charged With Killing Mother
Case #19WF1959
Garden Grove Man Charged With Killing His Mother
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old Garden Grove man has been charged with beating and stabbing his mother to death.
Jonathan Michael Warner, 28, of Garden Grove was charged today with one felony count of murder. He faces a minimum of 25 years and a maximum of life in prison if convicted.
Warner is scheduled to be arraigned in CJ1 today. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail without bail.
Warner is alleged to have beat, bludgeoned, and stabbed 62-year-old Vivian Wolff to death, leaving her body under a comforter in her bedroom. Wolff was discovered on Tuesday, August 6, 2019 by friends who came to check on her after she stopped returning phone calls.
Warner was arrested by officers the Garden Grove Police Department on August 8, 2019 near police headquarters.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Heather Brown of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Beating
Jonathan Michael Warner
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
