OP-ED BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS DEBUNKING RECENT HARVARD STUDY ON PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
OP-ED BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS DEBUNKING RECENT HARVARD STUDY ON PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 13, 2017
Home
Press
OP-ED BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS DEBUNKING RECENT HARVARD STUDY ON PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT
September 13, 2017
OP-ED BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS DEBUNKING RECENT HARVARD STUDY ON PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT
The numbers were startling.
According to media reports, a newly formed group affiliated with Harvard Law School called the “Fair Punishment Project” (FPP) supposedly reviewed court decisions from 2010 to 2015 involving the Orange County District Attorney’s Office. The “study” found that the OCDA had seven convictions reversed due to prosecutorial misconduct and 24 overall findings of prosecutorial misconduct, and these numbers were ranked amongst the highest in the state. Curiously, the authors of the report chose not to “show their work” behind their claims, or list any of the qualifying cases they had deemed to be prosecutorial misconduct. The media accused our prosecutors of “cheating” to win, and wrote an editorial stating “these are not cases of errors, but of willful and serious misconduct,” while a local politician who covets the Office of the District Attorney proclaimed we had “the worst record in the entire state.”
There was just one problem: The numbers in the study were completely wrong.
In their rush to criticize the men and women of the OCDA who handle over 60,000 new cases each year, the media, politicians, and other opportunists all neglected to take the time to confirm whether the report’s information was actually correct.
The truth is the claims do not match the evidence.
What’s even more puzzling, the FPP got wind that they may be exposed and they “corrected” their study, yet the numbers were still wrong.
Publicly available records show that in five of the seven alleged reversals, the appellate decision contained no finding of prosecutorial misconduct. In fact in one decision, the Court of Appeal explicitly stated, “We do not find fault with the prosecution,” yet the report included it anyway as a reversal due to prosecutorial misconduct. Two of the seven cases were not even reversals, but   rather   legal   motions that   did   not   involve misconduct by   the prosecutors. In reality, of the seven cases there were more reversals due to decisions by trial judges (three), than due to decisions by prosecutors (two). Interestingly enough, nobody is suggesting there is a “systemic” effort by our trial judges to cheat defendants.   Such a suggestion would be wrong, just as it is wrong to suggest that there is a systemic effort by OCDA prosecutors to do so.
Further, the appellate justices deciding these cases understood what the media did not: that as a legal term, “prosecutorial misconduct” can include unintentional errors and the slightest of misstatements. As a result, the Court of Appeal did not find the vast majority of misconduct cited in the report to be willful or serious, and instead used descriptions like “a rather minor digression,” “a few stray words,” or in one instance, “a single improper question in the course of a lengthy trial.”
Putting the correct numbers of the FPP in perspective, they cite over 150 cases between 2010 and 2015 where a convicted defendant claimed he/she didn’t get a fair trial due to prosecutorial misconduct, and in all but two cases, over 98 percent of the time, the Court of Appeal disagreed. While a single reversal due to misconduct is unacceptable, these numbers in context display what I have long known to be true: that the OCDA has a consistent superb record of fairly convicting guilty defendants to keep our community safe, and give victims and their families a sense of justice.
It’s unfortunate Harvard University has sullied itself by publishing such an unscholarly study. It is irresponsible for the group, no matter its anti-prosecutorial and public safety agenda, to publish such a “study” and double down when they are about to be exposed, and for the media to parrot it even when they had the raw data. Finally, it is pathetic for a politician to try to cheer on case reversals and seek political gain from pain to crime victims.
The OCDA is aware of the huge responsibility that the prosecution has and our number one duty is to do justice while seeking public safety. Academics, reporters, and politicians also have their respective responsibilities to state the truth. Blindly repeating claims of misconduct is reckless at best, and promotes an unwarranted and dangerous distrust within our community, even when those claims are proven false.
Let us hope the next time such claims are made, the response is to search for the truth, rather than a headline.
Sincerely,
Tony Rackauckas
District Attorney
Tagged with:
Fair Punishment Project
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Media Advisory - Video of News Conference Debunking Recent Harvard Study on Prosecutorial Misconduct
Press
RECENT HARVARD STUDY ON PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT DEBUNKED BY ORANGE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S OFFICE
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - News Conference Exposing the Truth of the Harvard Study
