Four People Charged With Kidnapping Irvine Woman for Ransom - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Four People Charged With Kidnapping Irvine Woman for Ransom
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 4, 2019
Home
Press
Four People Charged With Kidnapping Irvine Woman for Ransom
Four People Charged With Kidnapping Irvine Woman for Ransom
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Four people were charged today with multiple felonies in connection with kidnapping an Irvine woman and holding her for ransom.
Ezra Schley, 71, and Yang “Rose” Wang, 37, both of Huntington Beach, Reha Soylular, 54, of Newport Beach, and George Armando Medrano, 34, of Norco, were each charged with one felony count of aggravated kidnapping for ransom and extortion, one felony count of residential burglary, and one felony count of attempted extortion.
Medrano was also charged with one felony count of a felon in possession of ammunition and one misdemeanor count of possession of marijuana for sale. Schley was charged with one misdemeanor count of carrying a loaded firearm in public.
All four defendants face a minimum of seven years and a maximum sentence of life if convicted on all charges. They are currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail.
The four defendants are accused of kidnaping Jane Doe from her Irvine apartment on August 28, 2019 in an attempt to extort a large sum of money from Jane Doe’s husband and mother-in-law. They are also accused of sending pictures of Jane Doe being held captive to Jane Doe’s husband through a phone web chatting app.
Jane Doe was previously acquainted with at least one of the defendants. Authorities believe this is an isolated incident.
Jane Doe was rescued by the Irvine Police Department after her mother-in-law called police and requested a welfare check.
“Diligent police work by the Irvine Police Department helped locate this victim before further trauma could be inflicted on her and her loved ones,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
“I want to express my support for the victim and family as they recover from this traumatic event,” said Irvine Police Chief Mike Hamel. “I also want to thank the men and women of the Irvine Police Department who worked tirelessly to protect the victim and arrest those responsible for committing a heinous crime in our community.”
This case is being prosecuted by Laila Nikaien of the Special Prosecutions Unit.
Tagged with:
Attempted Extortion
Ezra Schley
George Armando Medrano
Kidnapping
Reha Soylular
Residential Burglary
Yang “Rose” Wang
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
