Man Charged in Assaults on Four Women along Santiago Creek Trail - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Man Charged in Assaults on Four Women along Santiago Creek Trail
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 14, 2020
Home
Press
Man Charged in Assaults on Four Women along Santiago Creek Trail
Case # 20CF2210
Man Charged in Assaults on Four Women along Santiago Creek Trail
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 21-year-old man has been charged with sexually assaulting four women along the Santiago Creek Trail in the City of Orange over the last few weeks. Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims.
Saul Montiel-Tejada, 21, of Orange, has been charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit a sexual offense, two felony counts of assault with intent to commit a sexual assault, two felony counts of sexual battery by restraint, and two misdemeanor counts of sexual battery.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all charges. He pled not guilty to all the charges today and is currently being held on $1 million at the Orange County Jail.
On August 12, 2020, at approximately 7:40 p.m., a woman was walking in the 4700 block of east Walnut Avenue when a man grabbed her buttocks and drove away on a bicycle. The woman called 911 and responding officers located a man matching the attacker’s description near Hewes Street and Center Avenue.  The man was arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and identified as Montiel-Tejeda.
On August 4, 2020 the Orange Police Department released a sketch of a man suspected in two separate sexual assaults of women in the City of Orange.
On July 25, 2020, at approximately 4:10 p.m., a woman was walking on the Santiago Creek Trail near Tustin Street and La Veta Avenue when a man grabbed her and pulled her into an alcove. The woman managed to run away and the man fled on a bicycle.
On August 2, 2020 a woman was exercising in Grijalva Park at approximately 6:35pm when a man walked up behind her, grabbed her buttocks, and rode away on a bicycle.
On August 9, 2020 a woman was walking on N. Tustin Avenue near Cambridge Street when a man grabbed her from behind and began pulling her backward. She managed to escape and he rode away on a bicycle.
“These brazen sexual assaults terrorized our community and had it not been for the tenacious police work to identify and arrest this predator there is little doubt that these attacks would have continued,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Thankfully he is now behind bars where he can no longer terrorize the community.”
Anyone with additional information is asked to call Orange Police Detective S. Costa at 714-744-7521.
Tagged with:
Battery
Kidnapping
Saul Montiel-Tejada
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
