Former Capistrano Unified School District Foundation Fundraising Director Pleads Guilty to Embezzling Funds - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Former Capistrano Unified School District Foundation Fundraising Director Pleads Guilty to Embezzling Funds
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 23, 2019
Home
Press
Former Capistrano Unified School District Foundation Fundraising Director Pleads Guilty to Embezzling Funds
Case #19HF1135
Former Capistrano Unified School District Foundation Fundraising Director Pleads Guilty to Embezzling Funds
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The former executive director of the Capistrano Unified School District Foundation (CUSDF) pleaded guilty today to three felony counts of embezzlement for stealing from the non-profit’s accounts.
Colleen Michelle Hart, 44, of Fresno, pleaded guilty to three felony counts of misappropriation or embezzlement of monies. She was charged with the crimes in August after it was discovered that she embezzled the money by writing checks to herself and making unauthorized purchases on the CUSDF bank card.
Hart was sentenced to 180 days in jail and five years felony probation. She was also ordered to pay back $18,000 in restitution to the nonprofit in addition to the $10,000 she has already paid back.
The Capistrano Unified School District Foundation, is a non-profit 501(c)3 corporation that has since been renamed the CARE Foundation and is no longer affiliated with Capistrano Unified School District. CARE raises funds to enhance the educational experience of students attending public schools within the Capistrano Unified School District.
Hart served as the executive director for the foundation from May 2014 until December 2017 and resigned from her position after the theft was discovered.
CARE hired an outside Certified Public Accountant to review the Foundation’s financial records in order to determine the scope of the loss. The Orange County Sheriff’s Department’s Economic Crimes Detail investigated the case and turned it over to the District Attorney’s Major Fraud Unit.
“There is nothing more important than ensuring that every child in Orange County has access to a quality education,” said Deputy District Attorney Nicholas Miller of the Major Fraud Unit. “Ms. Hart violated the trust that was placed in her by embezzling money that was supposed to go to school children. Ms. Hart’s convictions for multiple felonies makes it clear that the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will prosecute anyone that steals from our kids.”
Tagged with:
Colleen Michelle Hart
Embezzlement
Misappropriation of Funds
Non-Profit
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Suzuki Accountant Charged with Embezzling $1.8 Million
Press
Former Capistrano Unified School District Fundraising Director Charged with Embezzling Funds
Press
Former Esperanza High School Clerk Charged with 222 Felonies
