Convicted Felon With Seven Prior Strikes Given Three Years in Prison for Rendering Man Permanently Incapacitated With One Punch - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Convicted Felon With Seven Prior Strikes Given Three Years in Prison for Rendering Man Permanently Incapacitated With One Punch
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 15, 2019
Home
Press
Convicted Felon With Seven Prior Strikes Given Three Years in Prison for Rendering Man Permanently Incapacitated With One Punch
Case #18NF1699
Attack left 34-year-old victim with mental capacity of a 14-year-old
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A convicted felon with seven prior strikes was sentenced to three years in state prison for punching a man in an attack that left his victim with the mental capacity of a 14-year-old.
Christian Isadore Dubose, 34, of Anaheim, pleaded guilty in March to one felony count of battery with serious bodily injury and one misdemeanor count of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury. Judge Roger B. Robbins dismissed the enhancement of great bodily injury on the assault charge and reduced the felony assault charge to a misdemeanor. Robins sentenced Dubose to three years in state prison after striking Dubose’s seven prior strikes over the repeated objection of the District Attorney’s Office.
Dubose faced a maximum of 25 years to life plus eight years.
On April 13, 2018, Dubose and the victim were both at a birthday party at a La Habra apartment. At approximately 10:45 p.m. the victim and his girlfriend left to move their vehicles from a prohibited parking area. Dubose followed the victim and accused him of owing him $200.
Without provocation, Dubose punched the victim in the head, hitting him with such force that the victim fell and hit his head with full force and without bracing his fall. Dubose left his victim unconscious and fled.
The 34-year-old victim was transported to a local trauma center where he was treated for several skull and face fractures, severe brain bleeds, and traumatic brain injury. After months in the hospital, the victim suffers from permanent cognitive defects, including memory loss and difficulty distinguishing reality from fantasy.
He also drags his left leg and foot when he walks as a result of the attack.
Philip Coley, the victim’s father, urged Judge Roger B. Robbins to hold his son’s attacker accountable for the pain he inflicted on his son and their entire family and sentence him to much more than three years.
Coley told the judge of being by his son’s hospital bed for 2 ½ months, watching him fight for his life, and the life sentence his family has been forced to endure caring for their now-incapacitated son.
“I feel like it’s unjust. It’s unfair,” said Philip Coley, the victim’s father. “This is an ex-felon whose behavior has not changed. He is a clear and evident threat to society. He should be sentenced as such.”
Dubose has an extensive criminal history, including a gang-related 2007 takeover robbery of a business that victimized seven people, including one victim who was pistol-whipped and another who was held at knife-point.
“It is unconscionable that someone who intentionally unleashed this level of violence after a lifetime of committing crime would be given such a lenient sentence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This slap on the wrist does little to hold the perpetrator accountable or protect our community from someone who has demonstrated an increasingly serious level of violence.”
Deputy District Attorney Austin Young prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Battery
Christian Isadore Dubose
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
