Man Charged With Murder For Stabbing Man to Death During Newport Beach Robbery Seven Weeks After Being Released from Prison - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged With Murder For Stabbing Man to Death During Newport Beach Robbery Seven Weeks After Being Released from Prison
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
October 20, 2023
Home
Press
Man Charged With Murder For Stabbing Man to Death During Newport Beach Robbery Seven Weeks After Being Released from Prison
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 20, 2023
Case #: 23CF2837
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged With Murder For Stabbing Man to Death During Newport Beach Robbery Seven Weeks After Being Released from Prison
Defendant is eligible for the death penalty; daughter charged with robbery.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been charged with special circumstances murder for stabbing a man to death in a Newport Beach alley to steal his Rolex watch just seven weeks after being released from state prison.
Randolph Loren Aguirre, 55, of Brea, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of second-degree robbery, two felony enhancements of personal use of a deadly weapon and one felony enhancement of special circumstances robbery.
He faces a maximum sentence of the death penalty if convicted.
On September 30, 2023, at about 1:30 a.m., 46-year-old Robert Tamaccio was passed out in a Newport Beach alleyway after a night of drinking when Aguirre and his 30-year-old daughter Desiree Aguirre are accused of stopping their pickup truck to rob him, including stealing his Rolex watch.
Randolph Aguirre is accused of stabbing Tamaccio, kicking him in the head multiple times, and then stealing his shoes.  Tamaccio died from his injuries.
Randolph Aguirre is a third striker who had been released from state prison just seven weeks before the murder after serving a 3-year and eight month sentence for a 2021 assault case that involved an assault with a deadly weapon and assault to commit mayhem. He is currently being held without bail at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
Desiree Aguirre, 30, of Brea has been charged with one felony count of second-degree robbery. She is currently being held at the Central Women’s Jail in lieu of $150,000 bail.
Randolph and Desiree Aguirre are scheduled to be arraigned November 3, 2023 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C5.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jeff Moore of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Randolph Loren Aguirre
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 6 =
