Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 22, 2020
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 20ZF008
Date: December 22, 2020
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury
For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Deputy broke into the Yorba Linda home multiple times,
including once while on duty and in uniform, following homeowner’s death
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s Department deputy has been indicted by a grand jury on multiple felonies in connection with breaking into the Yorba Linda home of a man he found dead during a welfare check this summer. The 12-year veteran was captured on home surveillance video returning to the home several times, including once while on duty and wearing his Sheriff’s uniform, to steal guns and other items from the home.
Steve Hortz, 42, of San Dimas, was indicted on three felony counts of second degree burglary and two felony counts of grand theft of a firearm in connection with breaking into the deceased man’s Yorba Linda home.
Hortz is scheduled to be arraigned on the grand jury indictment on January 26, 2021. He faces a maximum sentence of four years and four months in state prison if convicted on all charges. Hortz resigned in lieu of termination effective September 30, 2020.
Hortz responded along with two other Sheriff’s Department employees to a home on Via Angelina Drive in Yorba Linda on July 20, 2020 to conduct a welfare check. The homeowner was found deceased of what was later determined to be natural causes.
Hortz is accused of returning to the home in uniform on July 27, 2020 and breaking into the home while he was on duty. He is also accused of returning to the home on two more occasions – on August 10, 2020 and August 16, 2020 – shortly before he was scheduled to work and stealing items from the home, including a total of 15 firearms.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department initiated an investigation after the probate attorney handling the deceased homeowner’s estate reported that a law enforcement officer may have stolen items from the home.
Hortz was arrested on September 10, 2020 by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
“I am so angry and beyond disappointed. This act in and of itself has done so much damage to the public perception of law enforcement and the timing could not be more detrimental,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The community must be able to trust those who wear the badge and have complete confidence that they are there to protect and serve the community rather than exploit that trust to rob the very people they are sworn to safeguard.”
Deputy District Attorney Laila Nikaien of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Grand Theft Firearm
Second-degree Burglary
Steve Hortz
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Deceased Woman’s Credit Cards in Attempt to Buy Thousands of Dollars in Automotive Parts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Press
Third Striker Charged with Attacking Police Officer Days After Appointed Commissioner Releases Him on Own Recognizance
