Garden Grove Man Charged with Hate Crime in Connection with Punching Elderly Store Clerk - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Garden Grove Man Charged with Hate Crime in Connection with Punching Elderly Store Clerk
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 13, 2021
Home
Press
Garden Grove Man Charged with Hate Crime in Connection with Punching Elderly Store Clerk
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 13, 2021
Case # 21WF3275
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Garden Grove man has been charged with a hate crime in connection with repeatedly punching a 71-year-old man working in a Huntington Beach liquor store. The defendant is accused of making a disparaging remark about immigrants.
Ralph Stanford Davis III, 51, of Garden Grove has been charged with one felony count of inflicting injury on an elder adult, one felony violation of civil rights causing violent injury, and a felony hate crime enhancement. He is also charged with unlawful tampering of a vehicle for spitting at and punching the vehicle of another customer outside of the store.
Davis is scheduled to be arraigned today in CJ1. He is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
He faces a maximum sentence of seven years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
On December 12, 2021, Davis is accused of making derogatory statements about the clerk’s nationality before punching him in the face as the clerk attempted to close the store’s security gate.
“This clerk should be able to earn a living without living in fear of being randomly attacked because of his nationality,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “I have made the prosecution of hate crimes a priority. My Hate Crimes Unit will do everything it can to hold these haters accountable and send a strong message that engaging in hate-motivated violence is a crime – and it will be prosecuted.”
Deputy District Attorney William Ha of the Hate Crimes Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Elder Abuse
Hate Crime
Ralph Stanford Davis III
Vehicle Tampering
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
