Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Pregnant Woman - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Pregnant Woman
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 13, 2020
Home
Press
Impaired Driver Charged with Murder in Death of Pregnant Woman
Case # 20NF2102
Woman had three prior driving under the influence convictions when she hit and killed 23-year-old mother-to-be in Anaheim
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 40-year-old woman has been charged with murder for being under the influence when she hit and killed a 23-year-old woman who was 8-months pregnant who was out for a walk with her husband in Anaheim Tuesday evening. The couple’s infant daughter remains in critical condition after being delivered through an emergency C-section following the death of her mother.
Courtney Fritz Pandolfi, 40, of Garden Grove, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of driving under the influence of drugs causing injury, and one misdemeanor count of driving on a suspended license. She faces a maximum sentence of life if convicted on all charges.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. Pandolfi was convicted of driving under the influence of drugs in 2008, in 2015, and in 2016. She received the Watson advisement all three times. The Steve Ambriz Act, authored by then-Assembly member Todd Spitzer, requires people applying for a California driver’s license to sign a form acknowledging that they can be charged with murder if they kill someone while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
“This is beyond shocking and it is absolutely reprehensible. There is no reason why a 23-year-old mother is dead and her daughter will grow up without ever seeing her mother’s smile or hearing her voice,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This was 100 percent preventable. This woman knew the consequences of driving under the influence and she did it anyway. As a member of the State Assembly, I authored the Steve Ambriz Act to be able to charge impaired drivers with murder. The ultimate goal is to prevent drivers from getting behind the wheel of a vehicle while impaired and causing these senseless deaths because they understand the consequences of being charged with murder and a life sentence. This was not an accident. It was a choice – and it was a deadly one.”
On August 11, 2020 Yesenia Aguilar was holding hands with her husband around 7:30 p.m. while walking on the sidewalk on Katella Avenue near Bayless Street in the city of Anaheim. Aguilar was 8-months pregnant.
A white Jeep SUV driven by Pandolfi was seen jumping the curb, crashing into a metal newspaper stand. She continued to drive down the sidewalk, hitting Aguilar. Her husband was not injured.  Pandolfi continued driving until her vehicle become disabled.
Aguilar died from her injuries. Doctors performed an emergency C-section to save her unborn baby’s life. She remains in intensive care.
Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Courtney Fritz Pandolfi
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Drugs
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
44-year-old woman with three prior driving under the influence convictions sentenced to 15 years to life for the murder of 8-months pregnant woman while driving under the influence of drugs while on a suspended license
