Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Showing Pornographic Videos to Teenage Girls while Working as School Resource Officer - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Showing Pornographic Videos to Teenage Girls while Working as School Resource Officer
Author
Chase Healy
Published
February 17, 2023
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Showing Pornographic Videos to Teenage Girls while Working as School Resource Officer
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 17, 2023
Case # 23HM01216
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with
Showing Pornographic Videos to Teenage Girls
while Working as School Resource Officer
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy has been charged with showing four teenage girls pornographic and other graphic videos while working as a school resource officer at Trabuco Hills High School in Mission Viejo.
Justin Raymond Ramirez, 34, of Anaheim, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of distributing harmful material to a minor. He is scheduled to be arraigned on March 7, 2023 at the Harbor Justice Center in Newport Beach in Department H8.
Ramirez faces a maximum sentence of 364 days in the Orange County Jail if convicted. Ramirez voluntarily resigned from the Sheriff’s Department.
On September 2, 2022, Ramirez was assigned as a school resource officer at Trabuco Hills High School in Mission Viejo. Ramirez is accused of showing two teenage girls who approached him in his Sheriff’s Department patrol car at lunch a pornographic video that included a woman being stabbed to death. He is also accused of showing the girls a video that included graphic drug use.
The girls called two other female students over to Ramirez’ patrol car and Ramirez is accused of showing all four students, who were between 15 and 16 years old, the graphic videos.
A mother of one of the students called the Sheriff’s Department after her daughter told her about the deputy showing her the graphic videos. The Sheriff’s Department investigated the incident and referred it to the Orange County District Attorney’s Office for potential criminal charges.
“School resource officers are in our children’s schools to ensure a safe learning environment and help build trust between law enforcement and our community,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Ramirez had no business being in a position of trust around children – and he abused that position of trust in a truly disgusting way. Thankfully, the Sheriff’s Department took swift action to investigate this criminal behavior and refer it to our office so that we can properly prosecute this deputy.”
Deputy District Attorney Matt Bradbury of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Justin Raymond Ramirez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 1 =
