Man Charged in Fireworks Explosion that Left Brothers, 4 and 8, with Burned Corneas - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged in Fireworks Explosion that Left Brothers, 4 and 8, with Burned Corneas
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
July 12, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged in Fireworks Explosion that Left Brothers, 4 and 8, with Burned Corneas
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 12, 2021
Case # 21WF1831
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Other children and adults suffered burns to their faces and scalps during Fourth of July incident
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Santa Ana man has been charged with lighting illegal fireworks and causing a Fourth of July explosion that left a 4-year-old with a burned cornea and an 8-year-old with second-degree burns and a burned cornea. Several other children and adults suffered burns to their faces and scalps as a result of the explosion.
Frank Lazcano Lopez, 46, of Santa Ana, has been charged with two felony counts of explosion causing mayhem and great bodily injury, one felony count of explosion of a destructive device causing bodily injury, and one felony count of dissuading a witness by force or threat.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all counts.
Lopez is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility on $1 million bail.
Just after 11 p.m. on July 4, 2021, Garden Grove police were called to Rosita Place and San Juan Place in Garden Grove to respond to a large explosion that injured several people, including young children, watching fireworks. Several people, including several children, were rushed to the hospital to be treated for their injuries, including two brothers, 4 –years-old and 8-years-old, who both suffered burns to their corneas. The 8-year-old also suffered second-degree burns around his eye.
The explosion caused significant damage to several nearby cars and shattered windows. A man, later identified as Lopez, is accused of igniting the fireworks and threatening a witness to force him to delete photos of the damages caused by the explosion.
Lopez was arrested by Garden Grove police on Thursday, July 8, 2021.
“The injuries suffered by these innocent children were completely preventable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer said. “Every year, law enforcement and fire officials warn the public about the dangers of illegal fireworks – and every year people suffer injuries they should never have suffered if they had listened to our warnings. This time it is very young children who were forced to suffer the very real and very painful effects of illegal fireworks. And children should never have to suffer as a result of the irresponsible acts of an adult.”
Deputy District Attorney Deborah Kwon of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Frank Lazcano Lopez
great bodily injury
Threat
xplosion causing mayhem
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Killing 77-year-old Grandmother, Seriously Injuring Her Boyfriend in Wrong Way Drunk Driving
Press
Professional Mixed Martial Artist Ralph Gracie Sentenced on Felony Assault Charge
Press
Irvine Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Hitting Wife’s Lover with a Car and Stabbing Him to Death in Front of Her
