Woman Charged in Attempted Kidnapping of Newborn While Posing As Social Worker - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Woman Charged in Attempted Kidnapping of Newborn While Posing As Social Worker
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 2, 2019
Home
Press
Woman Charged in Attempted Kidnapping of Newborn While Posing As Social Worker
Case # 19CF1775
Woman Charged in Attempted Kidnapping of Newborn While Posing As Social Worker
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Santa Ana woman was charged with attempting to kidnap a newborn baby from her mother while posing as a social worker.
Sara Orozco Magana, 38, of Santa Ana was charged with one felony attempt of kidnapping of a child under the age of 14 and one felony account of attempted taking of a minor from a parent or legal custodian. Magana faces a maximum of 7 ½ years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
On June 7, 2019, Magana is accused of knocking on the door of a Santa Ana home, telling the new mother that she was from Social Services and that she needed to take the woman’s one-week-old son. Magana is accused of refusing to provide identification and when questioned by the baby’s mother, said that a doctor probably reported abuse.
Magana is accused of threatening to call the police if the woman did not give her the newborn. The woman refused and the victim’s sister recorded the woman, later identified as Magana, leaving the home.
The footage was later released by the Santa Ana Police Department in an attempt to identify the woman.
Magana was arrested after she came to the Santa Ana Police Department after seeing the footage on the news.
She was released from custody on June 10 after posting $100,000 bail. She is scheduled to be arraigned on July 8, 2019 in C57 at the Central Justice Center.
“The safety of our children is paramount,” said District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office would like to remind parents, especially the parents of newborns, to remain vigilant about anyone who is around your child.”
The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children has compiled useful safety tips to safeguard against infant abduction.
Deputy District Attorney Tammy Jacobs is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Attempted Kidnapping
Sara Orozco Magana
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
