Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
January 12, 2023
Home
Press
Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 12, 2023
Case # 23HF0054
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl
is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A 30-year-old mother has been charged with felony child abuse and endangerment for allowing her 23-month-old son to be exposed to fentanyl, causing the baby to stop breathing. The baby was revived with CPR and is currently hospitalized at CHOC.
Jacqueline Hunter, 30, of Irvine, has been charged with one felony count of child abuse and endangerment, two misdemeanor counts of possession of a controlled substance, and one felony enhancement of causing great bodily injury on a child under the age of 5.
She faces a maximum sentence of 12 years in state prison if convicted on all counts. Hunter has pleaded not guilty to all charges. Prosecutors argued for bail to be set at $500,000 given the seriousness of the charges, but an Orange County Superior Court Commissioner Sheri Sandecki deviated from the scheduled bail of $100,000 and set bail at $30,000 over the objection of prosecutors.
On January 9, 2023, after returning home from a doctors’ appointment for a broken leg, the 23-month-old began struggling to breathe and then stopped breathing entirely. His father gave him CPR until paramedics arrived.
At the hospital, the baby tested positive for fentanyl.
A search warrant of the Irvine home where the baby lived uncovered a baggie of fentanyl and Xanax pills. Hunter is accused of possessing the drugs without the knowledge of her husband and allowing the baby to access the drugs.
“There is absolutely no reason that little boy is sitting in a hospital bed right now unable to breathe on his own,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “A parent’s only job is to protect their children from harm and because of a selfish decision by his mother, this baby is fighting to survive. We all know how deadly fentanyl is and for a mother to refuse to provide information to paramedics to help save her child is beyond unbelievable. The Orange County bench needs to start taking fentanyl cases seriously – and impose the appropriate bail that reflects the seriousness of the offense and the potentially irreversible damage this woman did to her own child.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Family Protection
Fentanyl
Jacqueline Hunter
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Involuntary Manslaughter Against Aliso Viejo Mother Whose 14-year-old Son Killed Vietnam Veteran While Child was  Illegally Riding an E-motorcycle 16 Times More Powerful than an e-Bike  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Aliso Viejo Mother Charged with Felony Child Endangerment After Vietnam Veteran Critically Injured When He Was Hit by Woman’s 14-Year-old Son Illegally Riding an E-Motorcycle 16 Times  More Powerful than E-Bike Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will  prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Yorba Linda Father Charged with Felony Child Endangerment and Abuse, Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor after 12-Year-old Son was Critically Injured while Illegally Riding E-motorcycle He Helped his Son Modify
