Parolee who Led Several Law Enforcement Agencies on Multi-County High-speed Pursuit Charged with Multiple Felonies, Including Assaulting Eight Law Enforcement Officers - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Parolee who Led Several Law Enforcement Agencies on Multi-County High-speed Pursuit Charged with Multiple Felonies, Including Assaulting Eight Law Enforcement Officers
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
November 16, 2022
Home
Press
Parolee who Led Several Law Enforcement Agencies on Multi-County High-speed Pursuit Charged with Multiple Felonies, Including Assaulting Eight Law Enforcement Officers
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 16, 2022
Case #: 22NF2943
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Parolee who Led Several Law Enforcement Agencies on
Multi-County High-speed Pursuit Charged with Multiple Felonies, Including Assaulting Eight Law Enforcement Officers
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 33-year-old parolee who led multiple law enforcement agencies in a multi-county high speed pursuit that ended in an officer-involved shooting in Whittier has been charged with multiple felonies, including felony assaults on eight law enforcement officers.
Johnny Anchondo, 33, of Moreno Valley, has been charged with one felony count of carjacking, one felony count of first-degree burglary, eight felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon not a firearm on a peace officer, one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm and two felony counts of theft with a prior felony conviction of taking of a vehicle.
He has also been charged with one felony count of evading a peace officer/reckless driving, one felony count of resisting an executive officer, three felony counts of vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three misdemeanor counts of hit and run with property damage, one misdemeanor counts of evading a peace officer and driving against traffic, one misdemeanor count of brandishing a weapon, one misdemeanor count of possession of a controlled substance, and one misdemeanor count of possession of controlled substance paraphernalia.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is legally allowed to prosecute all of the crimes committed in both Orange and Los Angeles Counties because it was a continuing crime that continued into Los Angeles County.
Anchondo, who is on parole for attempted carjacking and evading police, faces a maximum sentence of 54 years if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held in custody in Los Angeles County.
On November 9, 2022, at approximately 6:46 p.m. Fullerton police attempted to pull over a man, later identified as Johnny Anchondo, for vehicle violations. Anchondo is accused of driving to a condo complex and leaving his vehicle to flee on foot.
He is accused of then stealing a parked white van, but when Fullerton police attempt to block him in with a police car, Anchondo is accused of repeatedly reversing the van into the police car and fleeing in the stolen van.
Anchondo leads police on a high speed pursuit with speeds reaching nearly 100 miles per hour before abandons the disabled vehicle in Whittier. He is then seen running into a Whittier home where he is accused of stealing a set of truck keys while threatening the owner with a pair of scissors. The owners of the truck attempt to keep Anchondo from stealing the vehicle by trying to close a metal gate, but he gets in the truck drives through the gate and escapes.
The pursuit continues for another 40 minutes through Los Angeles County during which Anchondo is seen hitting several civilian vehicles with the stolen truck and nearly collides with several Los Angeles County Sheriff’s vehicles attempting to block him in a cul-de-sac. Anchondo is seen hitting two more civilian vehicles before being rammed several times by two Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department vehicles.
Anchondo then reverses the stolen truck into a Sheriff’s vehicle, nearly running over two Los Angeles Sheriff’s County deputies, and an officer-involved shooting occurs. Anchondo was not injured in the shooting.
“The victims in this case can rest assured that the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will do everything in its power to hold this dangerous individual accountable for the dozens of crimes he committed across two different counties,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is only by the grace of God that an innocent person wasn’t seriously injured or killed by someone who was hell bent on doing whatever he could to try to escape, including stealing multiple vehicles and assaulting numerous law enforcement officers.”
Deputy District Attorney Dustin Chupurdy of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Johnny Anchondo
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 9 =
