Founder of O.C.-Based Non-Profit Charged in 15-Count Indictment Alleging He Bribed County Supervisor in $12 Million Scheme - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
10 min read
Founder of O.C.-Based Non-Profit Charged in 15-Count Indictment Alleging He Bribed County Supervisor in $12 Million Scheme
Author
Chase Healy
Published
June 6, 2025
Home
Press
Founder of O.C.-Based Non-Profit Charged in 15-Count Indictment Alleging He Bribed County Supervisor in $12 Million Scheme
Friday, June 6, 2025
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
U.S Attorney’s Office, Central District of California
SANTA
ANA, California
–The founder of a now-shuttered non-proﬁt organization has been indicted on federal charges alleging he bribed then-Orange County Supervisor Andrew Hoang Do to obtain approximately $12 million in COVID-19 pandemic-related funds, pocketed the bulk of that money, then laundered it to avoid detection by law enforcement, the Justice Department announced today.
Peter Anh Pham, 65, of Garden Grove, is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, one count of conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, six counts of wire fraud, six counts of concealment money laundering, and one count of bribery.
Also charged in the indictment is Thanh Huong Nguyen, 61, of Santa Ana, who is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, one count of wire fraud, and one count of concealment money laundering.
Pham is considered to be a fugitive from justice. Nguyen’s initial appearance and arraignment are expected to occur on Monday in U.S. District Court in Santa Ana.
“These two defendants are charged with conspiring with a corrupt politician to pad their pockets while the nation suffered under the weight of COVID-19,” said United States Attorney Bill Essayli. “My ofﬁce and our law enforcement partners will continue our efforts to prosecute individuals who cashed in on government aid intended to help those impacted by the largest public health emergency in a century.”
“This conspiracy was a house of cards built on lies, betrayal, and insatiable greed. When it collapsed, it destroyed the façade of a hometown hero who had himself emerged from the ashes of the fall of Saigon and exposed the shameful reality of a politician who ignored the desperate cries of his most vulnerable constituents to line the pockets of his family and friends with millions of dollars in cash,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “While his co-conspirators dined on lavish sushi dinners and expensive wine, the elderly and the ailing who depended on Andrew Do were left to starve. Today’s indictments are another critical step in ensuring accountability – and consequences – for those who conspired to use the County of Orange’s COVID-19 funds as their personal ATMs– and to return those stolen funds to their rightful owners – the community for which these funds were originally intended.”
According to the indictment that was returned on Wednesday and unsealed today, Pham was a friend and associate of Do, 62, of Santa Ana, who served on the Orange County Board of Supervisors from 2015 until his resignation in October 2024. In that role, Do was one of ﬁve supervisors on the Board, which is responsible for the county’s $9 billion annual budget.
Do pleaded guilty in October 2024 to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds and is scheduled to be sentenced on June 9, when he will face a sentence of up to ﬁve years in federal prison.
From June 2020 to October 2024, Do used his ofﬁcial position as a county supervisor to vote for millions of dollars in county funds to be allocated in his district, subject to disbursement at his sole discretion. Do then steered county contracts and grants to Pham and Nguyen, the indictment alleges.
For example, in June 2020, Do voted to approve an agenda item that, in part, allocated $5 million in federal COVID-19 pandemic-relief funding to a county nutrition program. As part of this agenda item, Do authorized himself a budget of $1 million to develop that nutrition program in his district, which he could distribute without further approval from the rest of the Board.
Eight days after Do voted to approve the agenda item, Pham founded the Huntington Beach- based non-proﬁt organization Viet America Society (VAS).
Pham, through VAS, and Nguyen, through a Garden Grove-based group called Hand-to-Hand Relief Organization Inc. (H2H), entered into contracts and beneﬁciary agreements with the county. In many of these contracts, VAS and H2H falsely represented that they would reimburse the county for any funds not spent for the contract’s intended purpose. In each of the beneﬁciary agreements, VAS and H2H falsely certiﬁed that all funds would be used solely for the grant’s intended purpose.
In exchange for Pham’s bribes in the form of payments to his two daughters, Do used his ofﬁcial position as a county supervisor to advocate for VAS and H2H so county employees would approve contracts and beneﬁciary agreements between the county and these organizations. Do
and his staff –including his chief of staff –edited the terms of those contracts and agreements to make them more favorable to Pham and Nguyen. Through the inﬂuence of Do and his staff, the county wired funds to Pham and Nguyen.
After receiving county funds, Pham and Nguyen transferred most of the money to other entities they controlled. They then spent large portions of the funds to pay personal expenses such as rent and bills, to pay off debts owed by their other businesses, and to make personal investments such as purchasing commercial and residential real estate. Pham and Nguyen also used county funds to bribe Do through payments to his daughters.
Pham also used county money to pay the eventual wife of Do’s chief of staff, under the guise that she was providing consulting services to VAS. Do’s chief of staff then used his position in Orange County’s government to help VAS and H2H obtain county contracts, edited the contracts’ terms to make them more favorable to VAS and H2H, and helped those organizations fulﬁll reporting requirements and get paid.
When required to submit invoices to the county to account for how the money was being spent, Pham and Nguyen submitted false documents, claiming to have used all the funds –all solely for legitimate purposes and according to the contracts’ terms.
To disguise the funds’ source, Pham and an associate caused checks from county funds to be written to a Westminster-based company called D Air Conditioning Co. LLC. This company then issued checks from its corporate bank account to Pham, Pham’s associate, and one of Do’s daughters.
In total, Pham and Nguyen unlawfully acquired approximately $12 million in county funds through this conspiracy.
An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is
presumed innocent until and unless proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
If convicted of the charges, Pham and Nguyen would face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in federal prison for the conspiracy count, each wire fraud count, and each money laundering count. Pham also would face up to 10 years in federal prison for the bribery count.
The FBI, the Orange County District Attorney’s Ofﬁce Bureau of Investigation, and IRS Criminal Investigation are investigating this matter.
Assistant United States Attorneys Nandor F.R. Kiss and Rosalind Wang of the Orange County Ofﬁce, Assistant United States Attorney Tara Vavere of the Asset Forfeiture and Recovery Section, and Senior Deputy District Attorney Avery T. Harrison and Deputy District Attorney Anthony J. Schlehner of Orange County District Attorney’s Ofﬁce are prosecuting this case.
Contact
Ciaran McEvoy
Public Information Ofﬁcer
ciaran.mcevoy@usdoj.gov
(213) 894-4465
Tagged with:
Andrew Do
Peter Anh Pham
Thanh Huong Nguyen
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
Press
Former Orange County Supervisor Sentenced to 5 Years in Prison for Bribery Scheme Involving More Than $10 Million in COVID Funds
Press
Giám Sát Viên Quận Cam đồng ý Nhận Tội âm Mưu Hối Lộ Liên Quan đến 10 Triệu đô La Trong Quỹ Cứu Trợ COVID
