TWO BAY AREA FELONS CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING, PIMPING, AND PANDERING TWO WOMEN ON FOURTH OF JULY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
10 min read
TWO BAY AREA FELONS CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING, PIMPING, AND PANDERING TWO WOMEN ON FOURTH OF JULY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 8, 2016
Home
Press
TWO BAY AREA FELONS CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING, PIMPING, AND PANDERING TWO WOMEN ON FOURTH OF JULY
Case # 16NF1942
Date: July 8, 2016
TWO BAY AREA FELONS CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING, PIMPING, AND PANDERING TWO WOMEN ON FOURTH OF JULY
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Two Bay Area felons were charged and arraigned yesterday for trafficking, pimping, and pandering two women on Fourth of July. Jalil Qaalif Rollerson, 22, Oakland, is charged with one felony of human trafficking, two felony counts of pimping, two felony counts of pandering and a sentencing enhancement for a prior strike conviction for first degree burglary in 2013 in Alameda County. If convicted, Rollerson faces a maximum sentence of 42 years and eight months in state prison. He is being held on $235,000 bail and must prove the money is from a legal and legitimate source before posting bond.
Co-defendant Austin Jerome Woods, 23, Oakland, is charged with one felony count of human trafficking, one felony count of pimping, one felony count of pandering, and sentencing enhancements for two prior strike convictions for attempted robbery and robbery in Alameda County in 2010. If convicted, Woods faces a maximum sentence of 60 years to life in state prison. He is being held on $450,000 bail and must prove the money is from a legal and legitimate source before posting bond. Both defendants were arraigned yesterday, July 7, 2016, and are scheduled for a pre-trial hearing on July 15, 2016, at 8:30 a.m. in Department N-12, North Justice Center, Fullerton.
Circumstances of the Case
Rollerson and Woods are accused of being pimp/human traffickers who exploit women for financial gain. Pimps often establish rigid rules that their victims are expected to follow including setting daily quotas that the victims are expected to fulfill. The victims are often required to turn over all payment they receive for sex acts from sex purchasers to their pimp. Failure to follow these rules can result in physical and/or emotional abuse.
Rollerson is accused of driving a van with Woods, Jane Doe 1, and Jane Doe 2 from Northern California to Orange County. Both defendants are accused of arriving in Orange County with the intent Jane Doe 1 and Jane Doe 2 to engage in commercial sex.
On July 4, 2016, Rollerson is accused of renting a motel room in Anaheim for Jane Doe 1 and Jane Doe 2 to use for commercial sex with potential sex purchasers. Rollerson is accused of driving the victims to an area known for prostitution and human trafficking in Anaheim.
Later that evening, Rollerson is accused of driving the defendant and the victims to an area known for prostitution and human trafficking in Santa Ana. During the trip, Woods is accused of confronting Jane Doe 1 about not making enough money from a sex purchaser. Rollerson is accused of stopping the van on the freeway as Jane Doe 1 got out of the vehicle. An Anaheim Police Department (APD) officer made contact with Jane Doe 1 and arrested the defendants.
Members of the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force (OCHTTF) and the Orange County District Attorney’s (OCDA) Office work proactively to protect women and minors from falling victim to commercial sexual exploitation. This case was investigated by APD and OCHTTF, a partnership between APD, California Highway Patrol, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Huntington Beach Police Department, Irvine Police Department, OCDA, Orange County Sheriff’s Department, Santa Ana Police Department and community and non-profit partners.
Deputy District Attorney Daniel Varon of the HEAT Unit is prosecuting this case.
Proposition 35 and HEAT
In November 2012, California’s anti-human trafficking Proposition 35 (Prop 35) was enacted in California with 81 percent of the vote, and over 82 percent of the vote in Orange County, to increase the penalty for human trafficking, particularly in cases involving the trafficking of a minor by force.
A component of the OCHTTF is the OCDA’s Human Exploitation And Trafficking (HEAT) Unit, which targets perpetrators who sexually exploit and traffic women and underage girls for financial gain, including pimps, panderers, and human traffickers. The HEAT Unit uses a tactical plan called PERP:
P
rosecution, to bring justice for victims of human trafficking and hold perpetrators responsible using Prop 35;
E
ducation, to provide law enforcement training to properly handle human trafficking and pandering cases;
R
esources from public-private partnerships to raise public awareness about human trafficking and provide assistance to the victims; and
P
ublicity, to inform the public and send a message to human traffickers that this crime cannot be perpetrated without suffering severe consequences.
Under the law, human trafficking is described as depriving or violating the personal liberty of another person with the intent to effect a violation of pimping or pandering. Pimping is described as knowingly deriving financial support in whole or in part from the proceeds of prostitution.  Pandering is the act of persuading or procuring an individual to become a prostitute, or procuring and/or arranging for a person work in a house of prostitution.
Penal Code Section 236.1 defines:
(1) “Coercion” includes any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process; debt bondage; or providing and facilitating the possession of any controlled substance to a person with the intent to impair the person’s judgment.
(2) “Commercial sex act” means sexual conduct on account of which anything of value is given or received by any person.
(3) “Deprivation or violation of the personal liberty of another” includes substantial and sustained restriction of another’s liberty accomplished through force, fear, fraud, deceit, coercion, violence, duress, menace, or threat of unlawful injury to the victim or to another person, under circumstances where the person receiving or apprehending the threat reasonably believes that it is likely that the person making the threat would carry it out.
(4) “Duress” includes a direct or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship, or retribution sufficient to cause a reasonable person to acquiesce in or perform an act which he or she would otherwise not have submitted to or performed; a direct or implied threat to destroy, conceal, remove, confiscate, or possess any actual or purported passport or immigration document of the victim; or knowingly destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or possessing any actual or purported passport or immigration document of the victim.
(5) “Forced labor or services” means labor or services that are performed or provided by a person and are obtained or maintained through force, fraud, duress, or coercion, or equivalent conduct that would reasonably overbear the will of the person.
(6) “Great bodily injury” means a significant or substantial physical injury.
(7) “Minor” means a person less than 18 years of age.
(8) “Serious harm” includes any harm, whether physical or nonphysical, including psychological, financial, or reputational harm, that is sufficiently serious, under all the surrounding circumstances, to compel a reasonable person of the same background and in the same circumstances to perform or to continue performing labor, services, or commercial sexual acts in order to avoid incurring that harm.
(i) The total circumstances, including the age of the victim, the relationship between the victim and the trafficker or agents of the trafficker, and any handicap or disability of the victim, shall be factors to consider in determining the presence of “deprivation or violation of the personal liberty of another,” “duress,” and “coercion” as described in this section.
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
