58-year-old Santa Ana Man Sentenced to 293 Years to Life for Molesting Seven Boys as Young as Six Years Old - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
58-year-old Santa Ana Man Sentenced to 293 Years to Life for Molesting Seven Boys as Young as Six Years Old
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
February 21, 2025
Home
Press
58-year-old Santa Ana Man Sentenced to 293 Years to Life for Molesting Seven Boys as Young as Six Years Old
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 21, 2025
Case #: 17NF1442
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
58-year-old Santa Ana Man Sentenced to 293 Years to Life for
Molesting Seven Boys as Young as Six Years Old
Defendant preyed on sons of family friends and gave victims money and ice cream to stay quiet about sexual abuse.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 58-year-old Santa Ana man was sentenced to 293 years to life today for molesting seven boys as young as six. The boys were the sons of family friends whom he was trusted to care for and he often bribed his victims with money and ice cream to keep them quiet about the sexual abuse.
Alex Mauricio Padilla Beltran, 58, of Santa Ana, was convicted by a jury in November 2024 of 16 felony counts of a lewd and lascivious act with a minor under 14 years old, four felony counts of attempted lewd act upon a child under 14, three felony counts of oral copulation of a child 10 years old or younger, and one felony count of forcible lewd act upon a child under 14.
Beltran previously pled guilty to felony coercion and misdemeanor conspiracy to commit a crime in connection with a 2009 incident in Las Vegas involving the sons of the contractor he hired to renovate his home. Beltran gave the 12-year-old boy $10 after groping him and kissing him on the mouth and told him not to tell his parents, but the boy did disclose the abuse after his mother noticed him acting oddly. His 10-year-old brother also told his parents that Beltran had taken him in a backroom and groped him. Beltran was sentenced by a Nevada judge to probation and ordered to stay away from minor children.
Beltran was charged in Orange County in incidents between 2003 and 2017 involving seven different boys ranging from six to 13 years old. In one of the incidents, Beltran locked a bedroom door and held down a six-year-old boy while he orally copulated the child.
“Far too often, it’s not just the monsters hiding under the bed that we have to worry about,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It’s the monsters hiding in plain sight at family birthday parties and around our kitchen tables, waiting for the perfect moment to prey on an innocent child for their sadistic sexual gratification. The scars of child sexual abuse last a lifetime as does the guilt parents must live with knowing their child was in the arms of a parents’ worst nightmare instead of a trusted friend.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Tara Meath of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Alex Mauricio Padilla Beltran
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
