Orange County District Attorney Issues Community Warning Regarding Release of Registered Sex Offenders - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Orange County District Attorney Issues Community Warning Regarding Release of Registered Sex Offenders
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 28, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Issues Community Warning Regarding Release of Registered Sex Offenders
With jail population at historic low, there is no reason to release dangerous criminals back into our communities.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is issuing a warning to county residents about seven high risk registered sex offenders who have been released from jail months early despite being charged with cutting off their GPS monitors or otherwise tampering with the tracking devices to render them inoperable.
Many of the registered sex offenders who were released early spent just days behind bars instead of the six months required by law for registered sex offenders who violate parole by removing or disabling GPS monitors. The sex offenders are monitored by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR), which submitted the parole violations to the court.
Since April 7, 2020 seven registered sex offenders – with crimes ranging from indecent exposure and sexual battery to child molestation – have been released as a result of rulings by appointed Court Commissioner Joseph Dane.
One of the registered sex offenders, convicted of sexual battery, was released on April 7, 2020 after Commissioner Dane sentenced him 20 days credit time served and ordered him to report to parole. Just two weeks later – on April 24, 2020 – he appeared in court on another parole violation and Commissioner Dane again released him after sentencing him to 16 days credit time served.
Sheriff Don Barnes reported to the Orange County Board of Supervisors today the population in the Orange County jail system has been reduced by nearly 45% since March 7 and there is no overcrowding issue. Sheriff Barnes assured that proper steps, including social distancing, masks, and quarantining of new inmates, are in place.
“These kinds of high-risk sex offenders are the most dangerous kind of criminal and the most likely to re-offend. They are doing everything they can to avoid detection by the parole officers assigned to monitor them so they can potentially commit additional sex offenses. These are not the kind of people who should be getting a break,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As a state legislator, I was the author and founder of the State of California Sex Offender Management Board and the author of Megan’s Law on the Internet, which allows the public to see where these sex offenders are so that they can protect themselves and their families.
It is not the Court’s responsibility to control the jail population by releasing these dangerous criminals back into our communities. The residents of Orange County deserve to have the peace of mind that registered sex offenders are being held accountable and not just let out the front door of a jail by a court commissioner who refuses to follow the law.”
As a result of these dangerous decisions to not follow the law, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will not stipulate to appear in front of Commissioner Dane on parole violations involving registered sex offenders.
These seven registered sex offenders were released prior to the minimum 180-day sentence required by law for removing or disabling a GPS monitor.
WARNING
: Do not contact, confront, or attempt to apprehend.
The purpose of the release of the information is to allow members of the public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders. (Penal Code section 290.45 (a)(2)) Any use of this information other than for the stated purpose is unlawful.
Luis Joel Ramirez – 27
Last known address: Costa Mesa
Selected criminal history: sexual battery, assault with a deadly weapon, resisting a peace officer, burglary and possessing a leaded cane, a deadly weapon
Four parole violations since 2019
Released 4/7/2020 after serving 20 days credit time served on a parole violation for cutting off his GPS despite 180 day minimum sentence.
Released 4/24/2020 after serving 16 days credit time served on a parole violation for failing to report to parole.
James Franklin Bowling – 50
Last known address: Orange
Selected criminal history: lewd conduct in a public place, repeated convictions for failing to register as a sex offender, repeated convictions for sex offender on school grounds, possession of controlled substance and paraphernalia
Two parole violations since February 2020.
Released 4/9/2020 after serving 14 days credit time served on a parole violation for failing to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence. Ordered to report to parole. He does not report.
Rudy William Grajeda Magdaleno – 39
Last known address: Anaheim
Selected criminal history: child molestation, indecent exposure, assault, battery, criminal threats, inflicting injury on an elder adult
Five parole violations since 2017
Released 4/13/2020 after serving 142 days credit time served on a parole violation for failing to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence. He is ordered to report to parole. He does not report.
Calvin Curtis Coleman – 52
Last known address: Santa Ana
Selected criminal history: lewd conduct in a public place
Three parole violations since 2019
Released 4/13/2020 after serving 18 days credit time served on a parole violation after failing to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence and ordered to report to parole.
Kyle Albert Winton – 40
Last known address: Mission Viejo
Selected criminal history: annoy/molest a child, criminal threats to cause great bodily injury or death, resisting a peace officer, DUI and hit and run with property damage
One parole violation.
Released 4/17/2020 after serving 10 days credit time served on a parole violation after failing to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence and ordered to report to parole. He does not report.
Jose Adrian Oregel – 46
Last known address: Santa Ana
Selected criminal history: Unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor, oral copulation of a person under the age of 18, great bodily injury, second striker
Six parole violations since June 2019
Released 4/22/2020 after serving 18 days credit time served a parole violation for failing to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence and ordered to report to parole.
Mario Ernesto Sandoval – 45
Last known address: Stanton
Selected criminal history: sexual battery, touching for sexual arousal, indecent exposure, assault on a peace officer, assault
One parole violation in 2020
Sandoval failed to charge his GPS device as required by law, and was unaccounted for one third of the time he was out of custody
Released 4/22/2020 after serving 16 credit time served on a parole violation for failing to report to charge GPS monitor despite 180 day minimum sentence and ordered to report to parole.
Tagged with:
Calvin Curtis Coleman
Community Warning
James Franklin Bowling
Jose Adrian Oregel
Kyle Albert Winton
Luis Joel Ramirez
Mario Ernesto Sandoval
Rudy William Grajeda Magdaleno
Sex Offender
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Identifying Additional Victims of Registered Sex Offender
Press
CONVICTION UPHELD FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER SERVING LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES MURDER OF 29-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN THE COURSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
