Male Nanny Charged With Additional Child Molestation Felonies for Abusing 12 Young Boys in His Care - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Male Nanny Charged With Additional Child Molestation Felonies for Abusing 12 Young Boys in His Care
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 30, 2019
Home
Press
Male Nanny Charged With Additional Child Molestation Felonies for Abusing 12 Young Boys in His Care
Case #19HF0674
30-year-old Costa Mesa Man Faces 490 Years to Life for Molesting Boys as Young as Four
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man who served as a male nanny for families across Southern California was charged with additional felony child molestation charges today for victimizing 12 young boys under his care. The boys ranged in age from four to ten years old.
Matthew Antonio Zakrzewski, 30, of Costa Mesa, was arrested on May 17, 2019 by Laguna Beach Police Department detectives at a local airport after deplaning an international flight. Zakrzewski was originally charged with three felony counts of lewd and lascivious acts with a minor under the age of 14, and one felony count of oral copulation of a child under the age of 10. He was also charged with one felony count of possession of child pornography.
Zakrzewski pleaded not guilty to the original charges in May. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1.25 million bail.
Zakrzewski now faces a total of 25 felony counts, including 19 felony counts of lewd and lascivious acts with a minor under the age of 14, one felony count of oral copulation of a child under the age of 10, and one felony count of possession of child pornography. He also faces one felony count of using a minor for sex acts, two felony counts of distributing pornography to a minor for the purpose of engaging in sexual conduct, and one felony count of an attempted lewd or lascivious act with a minor under the age of 14.
Prosecutors allege the crimes were committed between January 1, 2016 and May 17, 2019. He faces 490 years to life if convicted on all charges.
Zakrzewski pleaded not guilty to the additional charges filed against him today. He is scheduled to appear in court on November 8, 2019 at the Harbor Justice Center in Department H1.
Investigators asked for the public‘s help in locating any other potential victims. As the investigation progressed, additional victims were identified through video evidence and tips from the public, resulting in additional charges being filed against Zakrzewski.
In early May 2019, a Laguna Beach couple had reported to Laguna Beach Police that their babysitter, Zakrzewski,had touched their eight-year-old son inappropriately and was concerned for the safety of their son and potentially other children.
The couple had hired Zakrzewski to care for their eight-year-old child through one of his several babysitting websites. The Laguna Beach Police Department’s Major Crimes & Intelligence Unit immediately opened an investigation, which led to the identification of a second seven-year-old victim in the City of Los Angeles, and ten more boys from across Southern California.
“These parents were led to believe that they could trust this man with the most precious thing in their entire world – their children,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Instead, he preyed on these innocent boys and violated that trust in a vile and sadistic way.”
Anyone who has information related to this investigation or any other unreported incidents involving Zakrzewski is urged to call the Laguna Beach Investigations Division line at (949) 715-1300.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Heidi Garrel of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Babysitter
Child Molestation
Child Pornography
lewd and lascivious acts on a minor
Matthew Antonio Zakrzewski
Minor
nanny
Sex Acts
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Male Nanny Sentenced to 705 Years to Life Plus 2 Years, Eight Months for Molesting 16 Young Boys Under His Care and Showing Pornography to a 17th Boy; Victims Ranged from 2 to 12 Years Old
Press
Male Nanny Convicted of Molesting 16 Young Boys Under His Care and Showing Pornography to a 17th Boy; Victims Ranged from 2 to 12 Years Old 34-Year-Old Costa Mesa Man Faces a Maximum Sentence of 690 Years to Life
Press
Santa Ana Youth Sports Coach Charged with Multiple Felonies for Molesting One of his Child Athletes
