Man Charged with Hate Crimes for Punching Elderly Asian Couple in Head While They Walked Through a Park - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crimes for Punching Elderly Asian Couple in Head While They Walked Through a Park
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
April 21, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crimes for Punching Elderly Asian Couple in Head While They Walked Through a Park
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 21, 2021
Case # 21CF1091
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Charged with Hate Crimes for Punching Elderly Asian Couple
in Head While They Walked Through a Park
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 26-year-old man who punched an elderly Asian couple in the face while they took a walk in a park in Orange has been charged with multiple hate crimes in connection with the unprovoked attack on Sunday. The man is also being investigated in connection with a verbal attack on an Asian woman in the same park earlier this month.
Michael Orlando Vivona, 26, of Orange, has been charged with two felony counts of elder abuse, two felony counts of battery – hate crime causing injury, and two felony hate crime enhancements. He faces a maximum sentence of nine years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Vivona is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $65,000 bail.
On Sunday, April 18, around 7:40 p.m. a 78- and 79-year-old Korean couple were taking their nightly walk at Grijalva Park in Orange when Vivona is accused of running up to them and punching the husband in the face, causing him to fall. As the couple attempted to find help, Vivona is accused of punching the wife in the head, causing her to fall.
Bystanders intervened and Vivona was arrested by the Orange Police Department. Vivona later made statements to police disparaging Asians.
Vivona is also being investigated in connection with an incident involving Japanese-American USA Olympic karate athlete Sakura Kokumai at the same park on April 1, 2021.
“I have made the prosecution of hate crimes a centerpiece of my administration and I am sending a strong message to Orange County – there will be no hate here,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “If you engage in hate-motivated crimes, you will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. My prosecutors have and will continue to aggressively prosecute haters who target Asians as well as anyone who is the victim of a hate crime whether it is as a result of race, religion, sexual orientation or any other protected class.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Battery
Elder Abuse
Hate Crime
Michael Orlando Vivona
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
