Orange County Fire Authority Firefighter Indicted In Hit and Run Incident Resulting in Death of a Pedestrian - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County Fire Authority Firefighter Indicted In Hit and Run Incident Resulting in Death of a Pedestrian
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
October 17, 2023
Home
Press
Orange County Fire Authority Firefighter Indicted In Hit and Run Incident Resulting in Death of a Pedestrian
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 17, 2023
Case #: 23ZF0008
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County Fire Authority Firefighter Indicted
In Hit and Run Incident Resulting in Death of a Pedestrian
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A veteran firefighter with the Orange County Fire Authority has been indicted on a felony charge for a hit and run incident that resulted in the death of a pedestrian in Dana Point.
Jeffrey Richard Grasinger, 36, of Rancho Santa Margarita, was indicted by the Orange County Grand Jury on one felony count of hit and run with permanent injury or death. He faces a maximum sentence of four years in state prison if convicted.
Grasinger has been a firefighter with the Orange County Fire Authority for 13 years. He was released on his own recognizance over the objection of prosecutors, who argued for bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on November 17, 2023 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C5.
On October 21, 2022, at approximately 6:45 p.m., Grasinger is accused of hitting a man crossing Pacific Coast Highway in Dana Point. The collision’s force caused the victim to go airborne, spin through the air, and fall head first into the pavement. Video captured the collision, including the vehicle hitting its brakes before colliding with the victim, hitting the victim, deactivating its brakes, and then leaving without stopping or rendering aid.
Orange County Sheriff’s Department investigators tracked the vehicle to a home in Rancho Santa Margarita and found blood on the front of the vehicle and damage to the vehicle consistent with hitting a pedestrian. Investigators later determined that Grasinger had been behind the wheel of the vehicle that hit and killed 24-year-old Said Darinel Sanchez.
“Firefighters are public servants who are sworn to protect the lives of others,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “While another driver stopped to render aid after witnessing the collision, Mr. Grasinger, a professional firefighter trained to provide medical attention, drove off after hitting a human being. The fact that a sworn firefighter would disregard a human life so callously is not only disturbing; it is criminal.”
Deputy District Attorney Matt Bradbury of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Jeffrey Richard Grasinger
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
