Man Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty for Strangling and Drowning his Four-month-old Female Puppy in Bathtub of Cypress Hotel - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty for Strangling and Drowning his Four-month-old Female Puppy in Bathtub of Cypress Hotel
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
May 10, 2024
Home
Press
Man Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty for Strangling and Drowning his Four-month-old Female Puppy in Bathtub of Cypress Hotel
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 10, 2024
Case #: 24WF1316
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty for Strangling and Drowning his
Four-month-old Female Puppy in Bathtub of Cypress Hotel
Firefighters discovered dead puppy after being called to hotel room to put out fire caused by man setting a Bible on fire.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been charged with strangling and then drowning his four-month-old puppy in the bathtub of an extended stay hotel in Cypress earlier this week. Firefighters found the dead puppy after they were called to the hotel room to respond to a fire that was caused by the man setting a Bible on fire inside the room.
Richard Benjamin Tolliver, 27, has been charged with one felony count of cruelty to animals. He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison and a fine of $20,000 if convicted.
On May 6, 2024, at around 8:50 a.m., firefighters from the Orange County Fire Authority were called to the Extended Stay America hotel regarding a report of a possible fire in one of the hotel rooms. After using a key card from the manager to enter the room, firefighters found a Bible on fire and a dead four-month-old, female red Golden Retriever in the bathtub.
The occupant of the room, later identified as Richard Tolliver, was transported to Los Alamitos Medical Center and arrested on suspicion of animal cruelty.
Tolliver has pleaded not guilty and remains in custody in lieu of $5,000 bail.
“The thought of someone strangling a tiny puppy and then holding it under water in a hotel bathroom until it stops breathing is beyond disturbing,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The loyalty and unwavering love of a dog makes the cruelty inflicted on a defenseless animal even more heartbreaking. Violence of any kind against animals will not be tolerated and we will prosecute those who inflict harm on animals to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Michael Chay of the Consumer and Environmental Protection Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Richard Benjamin Tolliver
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
