Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
January 25, 2024
Home
Press
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 25, 2024
Case # 21CF1703
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering
6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 26-year-old Costa Mesa man was convicted of murder today for shooting and killing a 6-year-old boy on the 55 freeway on May 21, 2021.
A jury convicted Marcus Anthony Eriz, 26, of Costa Mesa of one felony count of second-degree murder, one felony count of shooting into an occupied vehicle, and two felony enhancements of the personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death. He faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life in state prison. Sentencing is scheduled for April 12, 2024.
“The heartbreak of a parent losing a child is so overwhelming that no word exists to describe it,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The short, happy life of Aiden Leos is a life interrupted, abruptly ended by a bullet that pierced Aiden’s heart. The bullet not only killed a little 6-year-old boy; it ripped a hole in the heart of all of Orange County. Six-year-old boys should be playing outside in the sunshine, soaking in all the magic and wonder that is boyhood, not lying dead in a tiny, child-size coffin because a man he never met decided to execute him for no conceivable reason. While we will never know what Aiden would have become, we know that the pursuit of justice did not end until his killer was captured and this child murderer was prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
The driver of the Volkswagen Sportswagen, Wynne Lee, 26, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact and one misdemeanor count of having a concealed firearm in a vehicle. She faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Just after 8 a.m. on Friday, May 21, 2021, 6-year-old Aiden Leos was shot and killed while in the back seat of his mother’s car while driving northbound on the 55 freeway near Chapman Avenue following a road rage incident. Leos was on his way to kindergarten at Calvary Chapel in Yorba Linda.
Leos’ mother testified at trial that she had flipped the driver of the Volkswagen Sportswagen off after the driver cut her off. After driving away, she said she heard a large noise and heard her son say, “ow,” before pulling over the side of the freeway and pulling Aiden out of his car seat and calling 911.
Aiden later died at Children’s Hospital of Orange County (CHOC) in Orange.
The California Highway Patrol launched an intense manhunt for the shooter that spanned Southern California, including issuing a public plea for tips about the whereabouts of the suspects’ 2018/2019 white Volkswagen Sportswagen.
Eriz and Lee were arrested by the California Highway Patrol on Sunday, June 6, 2021.
Defendant Wynne Lee is awaiting trial on the charges filed against her.  She remains out of custody on GPS monitoring after posting a $100,000 bond in July 2021.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Aiden Leos
Marcus Anthony Eriz
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Press
Costa Mesa Couple will go to Trial in Murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos During Road Rage Incident on 55 Freeway, Judge Orders
Press
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Finding Other Firearm Brandishing Incidents Involving Suspects in 6-year-old’s Murder
