Previously Convicted White Supremacist Gang Member Found Guilty of Stabbing 22-year-old to Death - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Previously Convicted White Supremacist Gang Member Found Guilty of Stabbing 22-year-old to Death
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 18, 2019
Home
Press
Previously Convicted White Supremacist Gang Member Found Guilty of Stabbing 22-year-old to Death
Case #16ZF0001
Previously Convicted White Supremacist Gang Member Found Guilty of Stabbing 22-year-old to Death
Santa Ana, Calif. – A previously convicted white supremacist gang member was convicted today of second-degree murder for stabbing a 22-year-old man to death in a Laguna Niguel bar in 2015.
A jury found Craig Matthew Tanber, 40, of Los Alamitos, guilty of one felony count of second-degree murder for stabbing Shayan Mazroei several times after Tanber and girlfriend were told to leave The Original Patsy’s Irish Pub on September 8, 2015. Tanber was also convicted on one felony count of the personal use of a weapon.
Tanber is facing 56 years to life in state prison. He Is scheduled to be sentenced on February 7, 2020.
Tanber’s girlfriend, Elizabeth Thornburg, exchanged words with Mazroei when the two went outside the bar to smoke. Witnesses testified hearing Thornburg hurl racial slurs at Mazroei, and video footage captured her spitting on Mazroei several times. Before walking back in the bar, Mazroei spit on Thornburg.
Thornburg chased Mazroei back into the bar.
After being asked to leave the bar by a bouncer, Thornburg and Tanber waited outside the bar. Video footage shows Tanber walking back into the bar after the bouncer left to deal with another issue inside the business. Tanber then punched Mazroei and stabbed him twice, first through the heart and then in the shoulder.
Mazroei stumbled back into the bar and collapsed. Mazroei was taken to Mission Hospital by paramedics where he later died.
Following the stabbing, Tanber fled the scene but was arrested three days later at a Westminster motel by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
Elizabeth Thornburg has been charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact. A pretrial hearing is scheduled for February 21, 2020 in Department H1 at the Harbor Justice Center.
Tanber had been out of prison for just three months when he killed Mazroei.
In 2007, Tanber admitted to helping kill a 26-year-old man who was beaten to death with a claw hammer after stealing money from the former girlfriend of a white supremacist gang member. Tanber pled guilty to a lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter after his murder trial ended in a mistrial due to juror misconduct.
“Tanber is a very dangerous and violent man who has repeatedly shown a complete disregard for human life,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Careful deliberation by the jury provided justice for Shayan and his family. We will do everything we can to argue to the court that he should spend the rest of his life in prison for murdering Shayan, and robbing his family of a lifetime of memories.”
Tanber was prosecuted by Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney.
Tagged with:
Craig Matthew Tanber
Gang
Racial Slur
Second-Degree Murder
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine Attorney Convicted of Killing Semi-Truck Driver While Driving Intoxicated in Fiery 2019 Freeway Crash
Press
Two MS-13 Gang Members Convicted of Murder in Stabbing at Lake Forest Hot Tub Left Victim Nearly Decapitated, Girlfriend Injured
Press
Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life
