Former Capistrano Unified School District Fundraising Director Charged with Embezzling Funds - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Former Capistrano Unified School District Fundraising Director Charged with Embezzling Funds
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 26, 2019
Home
Press
Former Capistrano Unified School District Fundraising Director Charged with Embezzling Funds
Former Capistrano Unified School District Fundraising Director Charged with Embezzling Funds
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The former executive director of the Capistrano Unified School District Foundation (CUSDF) has been charged with embezzling more than $42,000 from the non-profit’s accounts.
Michelle Colleen Hart, 44, of Fresno, was charged with six felony counts of misappropriation or embezzlement of monies by a public officer. She is accused of embezzling the money by writing checks to herself and making unauthorized purchases on the CUSDF bank card.
CUSDF, now the CARE Foundation, is a non-profit 501(c)3 corporation. The mission of the CUSD Foundation is to raise money by developing partnerships with businesses and the community to enhance the quality of education for every student in the Capistrano Unified School District.
Hart served as the executive director for the foundation from May 2014 until December 2017 and resigned from her position after the theft was discovered.
CARE hired an outside Certified Public Accountant to review the foundation’s financial records in order to determine the scope of the loss. The Orange County Sheriff’s Department’s Economic Crimes Detail investigated the case and turned it over to the District Attorney’s Major Fraud Unit for review.
Hart was arrested by the Fresno Police Department on Thursday and is currently being held on $42,088.91 bail, which is the amount of money she is accused of embezzling from the foundation. In order to post bail, she is required to prove that the funds she is using were not feloniously obtained.
Deputy District Attorney Nicholas Miller of the Major Fraud Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Embezzlement
Major Fraud
Michelle Colleen Hart
Public Funds
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Capistrano Unified School District Foundation Fundraising Director Pleads Guilty to Embezzling Funds
Press
Former Suzuki Accountant Charged with Embezzling $1.8 Million
Press
Former Esperanza High School Clerk Charged with 222 Felonies
