In-home Behavioral Therapist Charged with Molesting Autistic Boy During Session in Boy’s Garden Grove Home - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
In-home Behavioral Therapist Charged with Molesting Autistic Boy During Session in Boy’s Garden Grove Home
Author
Chase Healy
Published
May 28, 2025
Home
Press
In-home Behavioral Therapist Charged with Molesting Autistic Boy During Session in Boy’s Garden Grove Home
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 28, 2025
Case # 25WF1571
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Salvador Armando Arriaga
In-home Behavioral Therapist Charged with Molesting
Autistic Boy During Session in Boy’s Garden Grove Home
Santa Ana – An in-home behavioral therapist has been charged with molesting an autistic boy under the age of 14 during a session in the boy’s Garden Grove home. Authorities are asking for anyone with additional information about 32-year-old Salvador Armando Arriaga or any other potential victims to contact the Garden Grove Police Department.
Arriaga, who was employed by Behavioral Health Works in Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of a lewd and lascivious act on a child under the age of 14 as well as an allegation that he went into the child’s home with the intent to molest him.
He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted. Arriaga is currently being held in lieu of $1 million bail.
Anyone with additional information about Arriaga or any other potential victims is asked to contact Garden Grove Police Department Detective Sindy Orozco at 714-741-5872 or
sindyo@ggcity.org
.
On September 18, 2024, Arriaga was at the boy’s home to provide him with behavioral therapy as he had several times in the past.
Arriaga is accused of holding the therapy session in the boy’s bedroom while the boy’s father stayed in the living room to care for another child.
The father became concerned when he no longer heard any conversation coming from the room and went in to check on his son. But when he opened the door, he did not see his son or the therapist.
When he opened the door of the walk-in closet, he found his son with his pants down and the boy’s therapist on his knees with his head near his son’s lap.
After being confronted by the boy’s father, Arriaga is accused of trying to escape through a bedroom window before running out the door. The boy’s father called Garden Grove police.
Arriaga is accused of changing his shirt and returning to the boy’s home while officers were still there.
Arriaga was arrested on suspicion of lewd act on a child. Over the next several months, the Garden Grove Police Department continued to gather additional evidence, including DNA evidence, resulting in Arriaga charged criminally and arrested on a warrant.
Deputy District Attorney Sean Riordan of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Salvador Armando Arriaga
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
