OCDA’S 6th ANNUAL VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH & RALLY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
OCDA’S 6th ANNUAL VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH & RALLY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 11, 2014
Home
Press
OCDA’S 6th ANNUAL VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH & RALLY
For Immediate Release
April 11, 2014
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
OCDA’S 6TH ANNUAL VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH & RALLY
HONORS CRIME VICTIMS AND SURVIVORS
SANTA ANA – The Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) hosted the 6
th
Annual Victims’ Rights March & Rally today in remembrance of murdered victims, in celebration of surviving victims, and in honor of victims’ rights.
About 300
victims, family, friends, law enforcement, and community leaders marched from the District Attorney’s Office to the Old Orange County Courthouse in Santa Ana and laid flowers at the foot of a memorial wreath to honor and celebrate the lives of murdered and surviving victims.
The Orange County Victims’ Rights March & Rally was established in 2009 after decades of legal efforts to secure the rights of crime victims. In 1990, Proposition 115 increased defendant sentences and decreased the number of times a victim had to testify. In 1996, Megan’s Law required sex offender registration and gave parents and the community access to sex offender residence addresses in their neighborhoods. In 2000, Proposition 21 increased the punishments for serious and dangerous gang crimes. In 2004, Proposition 69 required felony arrestees to submit a DNA sample and Proposition 66, which would have allowed the release of dangerous third-strikers, was defeated. In 2006, Proposition 83, or Jessica’s Law, instituted mandatory 15 years to life sentences for certain serious sex offenses against children. In 2008, Marsy’s Law codified victims’ rights into the California Constitution.
“
You are here today because you belong to an unfortunate fraternity,” stated
Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “
You did not choose to be violated.  You did not choose the pain.  But what you did choose, especially by being here, is to survive, fight and stand up to evil.”
The March & Rally included a Presentation of the Colors by the Santa Ana Police Department Honor Guard, Pledge of Allegiance by Santa Ana Police Chief Carlos Rojas,
National Anthem by Deputy District Attorney Anna Chinowth, Moment of Silence by Vice-Chair of the California State Board of Equalization Michelle Park Steel, presentation of proclamation by Orange County Supervisor Janet Nguyen, Marsy’s Law updates by Dr. Henry Nicholas III, remarks by Congressman Ed Royce, and acknowledgement of victims’ rights organizations by Orange Police Department Chief Robert Gustafson.
The keynote speakers were John Steves, husband of murder victim Mara Steves, and Blandina Gomez-Benitez, a high school student who successfully participated in the Orange County Gang Reduction and Intervention Partnership (OC GRIP).
John Steves
On Feb. 13, 2011, the day after their 21st wedding anniversary, John Steves’ wife Mara Steves was murdered by a driver who was under the influence of methamphetamine and prescription drugs.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
