Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of  Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 14, 2026
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of  Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 14, 2026
Case #: 26CF1935
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of
Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential
Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order
Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation.
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A former Orange County Sheriff’s deputy who was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport has been charged with possessing child pornography, illegally accessing a confidential law enforcement database to look up his ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend, and violating a restraining order by showing up to his ex-girlfriend’s home in the middle of the night. The deputy resigned from the Orange County Sheriff’s Department while under investigation, and he is accused of committing the crimes while employed as a sworn law enforcement officer.
Fernando Melo Flores, 40, of Irvine, has been charged with one felony count of possession of child pornography, one felony count of unauthorized computer access, and one misdemeanor count of willful disobedience of a court order. He faces a maximum sentence of three years and eight months in state prison and six months in the Orange County Jail.
On August 23, 2025, Flores is accused of going to the home of an ex-girlfriend in the middle of the night and repeatedly calling and texting her, resulting in the woman getting a temporary restraining order against the deputy. One day after he was served with the restraining order, Flores is accused of returning to the woman’s home, in violation of the court order.
As part of the investigation, it was revealed Flores had numerous images of child pornography on his phone along with screenshots of searches of the law enforcement database CLETS with information about his ex-girlfriend, her new boyfriend, and the boyfriend’s ex. Accessing CLETS for non-law enforcement purposes is a crime.
“No child should be subject to sexual abuse and to know that someone who was supposed to be protecting public safety as a sworn law enforcement officer was collecting images of child pornography like baseball cards for his own sexual gratification is beyond repulsive,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The crimes carried out by a sworn deputy are a dereliction of his responsibility to his community and a disgrace to the badge and to the hardworking men and women of law enforcement who carry out their duties faithfully each and every day.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Sarah Rahman of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Fernando Melo Flores
Sexual Assault Unit
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy, Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos  Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025.
Press
DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl  while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department
