DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl  while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department
Author
Chase Healy
Published
March 2, 2026
Home
Press
DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl  while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 2, 2026
Case #: 26WF0818
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Glenn Canyon Childers
DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl
while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs
Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential
victims
to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A local DJ who performs at children’s parties has been charged with raping a 17-year-old girl while she was unconscious and possession of hundreds of images of child pornography. Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department.
Glenn Canyon Childers, 32, of Los Alamitos, has been charged with one felony count of rape of an unconscious person, one felony count of rape by use of drugs, one felony count of possession of child pornography, and seven misdemeanor counts of possession of a controlled substance. He faces a maximum sentence of eight years and eight months in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts.
On August 31, 2025, Los Alamitos police received a report of an underage girl who had been given illicit drugs and then sexually assaulted. Childers was identified as a suspect in the sexual assault as well as being in possession of child pornography.
On February 24, 2026, Los Alamitos police arrested Childers at his Los Alamitos home and booked him into the Orange County Jail. He was released from custody after posting $100,000 bond. He is scheduled to be arraigned on March 26, 2026, in Department W12 at the Stephen K. Tamura West Justice Center in Westminster.
“The trauma endured by victims of sexual assault is a sentence that they can never escape,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Crimes of sexual violence will never be tolerated and we as a society must send a strong message that no child is a sexual object, and those individuals who prey on children for their own sexual gratification will be identified, they will be arrested, and they will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
“This arrest demonstrates our unwavering commitment to safeguarding the most vulnerable members of our community,” said Los Alamitos Police Chief Michael Claborn. “I am incredibly proud of the diligent work our detectives have done to move this case forward. We urge anyone who may have been impacted to come forward — your voice matters, and you will be heard and supported.”
Anyone who has additional information about additional potential victims is asked to contact Los Alamitos Police Detective Smith at 562-431-2255 ext. 490 or by email at
ssmith@cityoflosalamitos.org
Deputy District Attorney Carly Kray of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Glenn Canyon Childers
Sexual Assault Unit
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of  Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation
Press
Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy, Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos  Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025.
