San Clemente Man Charged with Multiple Felonies for Stabbing Neighbor after Dispute over Trashcans - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
San Clemente Man Charged with Multiple Felonies for Stabbing Neighbor after Dispute over Trashcans
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 25, 2020
Home
Press
San Clemente Man Charged with Multiple Felonies for Stabbing Neighbor after Dispute over Trashcans
Case # 20HF1340
San Clemente Man Charged with Multiple Felonies for Stabbing Neighbor after Dispute over Trashcans
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A San Clemente man has been charged with multiple felonies for repeatedly stabbing his neighbor following an argument over trashcans. The 60-year-old victim suffered a fractured skull and nearly died from blood loss after collapsing outside of the emergency room.
Adam Abduljabbar, 28, of San Clemente, has been charged with three felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon, one felony count of carrying a dirk or dagger, and three enhancements of inflicting great bodily injury in connection with the June 9, 2020 attack.
He faces a maximum sentence of nine years and eight months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Abduljabbar is scheduled to be arraigned on September 9, 2020 at the Harbor Justice Center in Department H9. On June 9, 2020, a man who shares a driveway with Abduljabbar confronted him about not taking in the trashcans for Abduljabbar’s elderly roommate.
The argument escalated and Abduljabbar is accused of stabbing his neighbor multiple times with a large hunting knife, including in the back of the head, causing a fractured skull and a brain bleed. The man’s wife drove him to the hospital and he collapsed in front of the emergency room.
“A dispute between neighbors should never escalate to violence, much less the ruthless nature of this attack,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Violence of any kind will not be tolerated in Orange County and those who choose to inflict violence on others will be prosecuted by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office to the fullest extent of the law.”
Tagged with:
Adam Abduljabbar
Assault with a Deadly Weapon
great bodily injury
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
Press
Father of 2-year-old Child Who Was Stabbed and Beaten is Charged with Attempted Murder, Mother with Torture
Press
Man Charged in Fireworks Explosion that Left Brothers, 4 and 8, with Burned Corneas
