Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School – Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
April 12, 2022
Home
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School – Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  April 12, 2022
Case # 22NF0963
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 30-year-old man is facing life in prison with the possibility of parole for kidnapping a 13-year-old junior high school student off the street while she walked home from school in Anaheim last month and sexually assaulting another teenager in Riverside County.  Numerous witnesses screamed at the kidnapper that they were going to call the police.
Andrew Giovanni Pio, 30, of Anaheim, was charged today with one felony count of kidnapping to commit a sex offense, one felony count of assault of a minor with the intent to commit a sexual offense, one felony count of a lewd act on a child, one felony count of second-degree robbery, and one misdemeanor count of evading a peace officer.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison with the possibility of parole if convicted.
“A man grabbing an innocent girl off the street and throwing her into a truck in broad daylight is the stuff of every parent’s nightmares,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.  “This brave little girl fought with everything she had and that will to survive combined with the bystanders who heard her screams and came to her rescue prevented this nightmare from becoming an even greater tragedy.  Thankfully, this little girl escaped and got to go home to her family.  The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is committed to doing everything it can to keep this predator off our streets so that he can’t victimize any more children. If he’s convicted of all charges, he has forfeited his right to live in our society.”
On March 31, 2022, at approximately 2:50 pm, the victim was walking from her junior high after school when she saw a white pick-up truck parked on Ball Road with the passenger side door open.  As the victim came closer to the truck, a man later identified as Pio is accused of getting out of the truck and pushing her into the vehicle.  Bystanders saw the girl kicking and screaming and confronted him.
Pio is accused of taking the girl’s cell phone and pushing her before driving away.
Officers attempted to pull over Pio on Friday, April 8, 2022 in the City of Brea after noticing the pickup truck he was driving matched the vehicle description in the Anaheim kidnapping.  Instead of pulling over, Pio led officers on a pursuit for nearly an hour.  Pio was arrested on Interstate 5 near the La Paz off-ramp in Laguna Hills after the California Highway Patrol deployed spike strips.
Pio is also charged with sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl last November in Riverside County.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Karyn Stokke of the Sexual Assault Unit Is prosecuting this case.
Click here
to view the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Aggravated Sexual Assault of a Minor
Andrew Giovanni Pio
Kidnapping
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years - Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
