Felony Animal Cruelty Suspect Surrender - Dog Recovered - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Felony Animal Cruelty Suspect Surrender – Dog Recovered
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
September 26, 2022
Home
Press
Felony Animal Cruelty Suspect Surrender – Dog Recovered
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 26, 2022
Sgt. Shane Carringer
(714) 493-7541
Felony Animal Cruelty Suspect Surrender – Dog Recovered
APD Detective Meadows and Steeler
ANAHEIM, Calif.
(September 22, 2022) – Felony animal cruelty suspect, Albert Abad, has surrendered to Anaheim police, and APD Detectives have recovered “Steeler,” a male Labradoodle suspected to be depicted in the viral video.
On Thursday, September 15, 2022, APD obtained video, depicting an adult male subject kicking and punching a dog captured on a doorbell camera, via social media. Detectives from the Anaheim PD Criminal Investigations Detail began working the case and identified 33-year-old Anaheim resident, Albert Frank Abad, Jr. as the suspect in the case.
On Wednesday, September 21, 2022, APD CID detectives, working with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office obtained a felony arrest warrant for Abad, for suspected violation of California Penal Code 597(a): Animal Cruelty. Later that evening, just after 9 p.m., Abad arrived at Center Sinai Animal Hospital, in the 10000 block of Venice Boulevard in Los Angeles, where he surrendered the dog to on duty staff who in turn, called Anaheim PD.
On Thursday, September 22, 2022, at about 1:30 a.m., Abad turned himself in to the Anaheim Police Department where he was booked for his warrant. This morning, APD Detectives recovered “Steeler,” a black male Labradoodle believed to be the dog depicted in the video. Steeler will be placed with Orange County Animal Care where he will be examined by a veterinarian to determine his condition.
Anaheim Police Chief Jorge Cisneros said, “This investigation highlights Anaheim PD’s commitment to the safety of our community, and enforcement of law. I understand the emotions evoked by such a disturbing video, depicting the abuse of a defenseless animal. I’m proud of our team who worked tirelessly to bring this suspect to justice, and our law enforcement partnerships which made the successful completion of the investigation of this case, possible.”
“The violence that was inflicted on a defenseless animal is disgusting. Dogs love unconditionally and that love was rewarded not with love but with violence. This behavior is not just offensive; it is criminal,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Anaheim Police Department quickly identified this individual, tracked him down and arrested him and rescued the dog. As a result of excellent police work, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will prosecute this abuser to the fullest extent of the law and we will send a strong message the abuse of animals will not be tolerated.”
Orange County Animal Care wishes to notify the public of the following:
For members of the community wishing to help, the shelter is open 7 days/week for pet adoptions. While the dog in this case is not available for public adoption, there are many pets in need of a forever home. You can find out more about animals available for adoption and the adoption process at
www.OCpetinfo.com
.
For those interested in providing assistance to the shelter’s efforts in caring for pets in need, you can easily do so by visiting OC Animal Care’s
Amazon wishlist
.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Albert Abad
Animal Cruelty
Steeler
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Fire Authority Heavy Fire Equipment Operator Charged With Felony Animal Cruelty
Press
WOMAN SENTENCED TO 26 DAYS IN JAIL FOR ANIMAL CRUELTY AFTER REFUSING TO TREAT AILING DOG AND TYING RUBBER BAND AROUND ITS TUMOR
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY PSA: Don't Leave Your Dog in a Hot Car (Video)
