MAN CONVICTED OF KIDNAPPING, TORTURING, AND MUTILATING MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OWNER - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
MAN CONVICTED OF KIDNAPPING, TORTURING, AND MUTILATING MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OWNER
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 4, 2018
Home
Press
MAN CONVICTED OF KIDNAPPING, TORTURING, AND MUTILATING MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OWNER
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 13CF3394
Date: January 4, 2018
MAN CONVICTED OF KIDNAPPING, TORTURING, AND MUTILATING MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OWNER
*Jury reached guilty verdict in less than two hours
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man was convicted today of kidnapping, torturing, and mutilating a marijuana dispensary owner. The defendant was found guilty by a jury after less than two hours of deliberation.
Defendant
Charges
Maximum Sentence
Court Date
Kyle Shirakawa Handley, 36, Fountain Valley
Found guilty by a jury today of the following felony counts:
(2) Kidnapping for ransom
Aggravated mayhem
Torture
First degree residential burglary
Sentencing Enhancement
Inflicting great bodily injury
Life in state prison without the possibility of parole
Sentencing
March 23, 2018, 9:00 a.m.
Department C-35, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana
Co-defendants, Hossein Nayeri, 39, Ryan Anthony Kevorkian, 37, and Naomi Josette Rhodus (formerly Naomi Kevorkian), 37, face the same charges and maximum sentence as Handley. Nayeri is currently scheduled for jury trial on March 23, 2018, and Kevorkian is scheduled for a pre-trial hearing on Jan. 26, 2018, in Department C-35, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana. Rhodus is scheduled for a pre-trial hearing on March 23, 2018, in Department C-55, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
Circumstances of the Crime
At the time of the crime, victim John Doe owned a lucrative marijuana dispensary business.
After two expensive trips to Las Vegas with John Doe in March and May 2012, Handley devised, and Nayeri is accused of assisting in devising, a plan to kidnap and rob John Doe.
Handley surveilled the victim’s home and parents’ home and followed him as he made frequent trips to the desert. The defendants wrongly believed the victim was driving to the desert to bury large amounts of cash.
Approximately one week prior to the kidnapping, Nayeri is accused of committing a routine traffic violation in Newport Beach, and subsequently leading Newport Beach Police Department (NBPD) on a high-speed chase when they attempted a stop. He is accused of crashing his car and fleeing on foot, and was able to escape at that time. Inside the abandoned car, Nayeri is accused of leaving surveillance equipment and videos, which at the time had no criminal significance.
On Oct. 2, 2012, John Doe, along with his roommate’s girlfriend, Jane Doe, were awoken in the middle of the night by masked intruders, kidnapped, zip-tied, and put into the back of a van.
Handley drove the victims to the Mojave Desert near the area where he and his co-defendants believed John Doe was hiding money. John Doe was tortured throughout the drive with a blow torch, a Taser gun, and a whip. Once in the desert, the victim was mutilated and bleach was poured on him in an effort to destroy any DNA evidence. John Doe and Jane Doe were dumped on the side of the road still bound, blindfolded, and duct-taped.
The kidnappers fled the scene and Jane Doe ran over a mile to a main road in the dark and flagged down a nearby police car.
John Doe spent an extensive period of time in the hospital recovering from his injuries.
Investigation and Arrests
NBPD began investigating this complex case and conducted a canvas of the neighborhood. A witness had been suspicious of a car parked outside John Doe’s home on Oct. 2, 2012, and documented the license plate. Handley was the registered owner of the vehicle.
Handley was also in possession of evidence from the crime in his home. Nayeri is accused of being linked to the crime through DNA found on that evidence. One additional DNA profile was found on the evidence but was unidentified at that time.
After Nayeri was identified as a suspect, NBPD determined the link between the kidnapping and the video surveillance equipment and footage found in the defendant Nayeri’s vehicle a week before the crime.
Through extensive investigation, NBPD identified Kevorkian and Rhodus as suspects. After months of investigation, Kevorkian is accused of being linked to the unidentified DNA on the evidence in Handley’s home. Rhodus is accused of participating in the plan to kidnap and torture John Doe.
NBPD investigated this criminal case and Senior Deputy District Attorneys Matt Murphy and Heather Brown of the Orange County District Attorney’s (OCDA) Office are prosecuting this case. Deputy District Attorney Erin Rowe of the Special Prosecutions Unit handled Nayeri’s extradition from the Czech Republic after he flew there from Iran.
Tagged with:
Hossein Nayeri
Kyle Shirakawa Handley
Naomi Josette Rhodus
Ryan Anthony Kevorkian
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Jail Escapee Convicted in “Unnecessary Trial”;  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Denounces California Governor Gavin Newsom, State Legislature for Reckless Law Changes to Roll Back Sentencing, Allowing Felons Ever-Evolving Options to be Released from Custody; Prosecutors tried convicted kidnapper already serving two consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole for escaping from jail as precaution to guard against potential future law changes that could change sentencing
Press
Man Convicted of Escaping from Orange County Jail, Kidnapping Cab Driver to aid in Getaway
Press
Former Fugitive Sentenced to Three Life Sentences for Kidnapping and Torturing Man in Plot to Steal Money Believed to Be Buried
