Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Standoff Charged with 12 Felonies - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Standoff Charged with 12 Felonies
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 3, 2020
Home
Press
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Standoff Charged with 12 Felonies
Case #20WF0017
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Standoff Charged with 12 Felonies
Santa Ana, Calif. – A 26-year-old man who survived being shot in the face by police after firing at an officer during an hours-long New Year’s Eve standoff was charged today with 12 felonies and one misdemeanor. Fernandez is also accused of holding one woman at gunpoint and shooting at another as she drove her car into her garage.
Steven Taylor Fernandez, 26, of San Diego, is facing a maximum sentence of 62 years to life plus 31 years and eight months if convicted on all charges.
Fernandez has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder of a peace officer, one felony count of attempted murder, five felony counts of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, one felony count of criminal threats, one felony count of vandalism, and one felony count of carrying a loaded firearm in public. He has also been charge with one felony count of discharging a firearm at an inhabited building, one felony count of grossly negligent discharge of a firearm, and one misdemeanor charge of brandishing a firearm capable of being concealed.
Fernandez has also been charged with five felony enhancements of personal use of a firearm during the commission of a serious felony, one felony enhancement of attempted premeditated murder, two felony enhancements of personally using a firearm, and two felony enhancements of discharge of a firearm.
Officers were notified of a man in distress who was in possession of a handgun near Orange Avenue and Palmer Street in the city of Costa Mesa around 3:43 p.m. on December 31, 2019.
The man, later identified as Fernandez, shot several times at police, who returned fire. Fernandez ran to a residential garage on the 200 block of Knox Place and opened fire on a resident. The resident was not hurt.
Fernandez barricaded himself in the garage and was subsequently shot by officers.
He was taken to Orange County Global Hospital where he remains in custody. Fernandez is scheduled to be arraigned on January 10, 2020 in Department C5 at the Central Justice Center.
Deputy District Attorney Laila Nikaien of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Attempted Murder
Semi-automatic Firearm
Steven Taylor Fernandez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
