OC GRIP HOSTS TAEKWONDO SUMMER CAMP IN COSTA MESA - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
OC GRIP HOSTS TAEKWONDO SUMMER CAMP IN COSTA MESA
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 22, 2019
Home
Press
OC GRIP HOSTS TAEKWONDO SUMMER CAMP IN COSTA MESA
OC GRIP HOSTS TAEKWONDO SUMMER CAMP IN COSTA MESA
COSTA MESA, Calif. – The Orange County Gang Reduction Partnership (OC GRIP) is hosting “Strikes for Success Athletic Enrichment Program” as one of its many efforts to deter students from joining gangs. The event, produced in conjunction with Orange County Youth Sports Foundation, Costa Mesa Police and Newport Mesa School District, will kick off with an opening ceremony on Tuesday, July 23, 2019 at 10 a.m.
The Orange County Youth Sports Foundation generously donated $20, 000 dollars in June 2019 in order to start the first OC GRIP Taekwondo Summer Camp in Costa Mesa. OC GRIP just finished the first school year in Costa Mesa at two elementary schools. This program will be held at Wilson Elementary school for 18 students and will run from July 22 until August 9, culminating with a yellow belt ceremony.
The media is invited to join students in the fourth through sixth grade from Wilson and Rea Elementary schools in Costa Mesa for the opening ceremony at 10a.m. at Wilson Elementary School is located at 801 W. Wilson St. in Costa Mesa, CA, 92627.
The OC GRIP Strikes for Success Athletic Enrichment Program focuses on discipline, leadership, teamwork and respect. It was designed to positively engage students during the summer months and prevent them from participating in criminal and/or gang activity. Students will continue to be personally mentored and supported throughout the upcoming school year.
About OC GRIP
The award-winning Orange County Gang Reduction and Intervention Partnership (OC GRIP) is a law enforcement partnership formed by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office which identifies at-risk youth and aims to increase school attendance and decrease gang activity. OC GRIP is currently in 60 schools in Orange County and is the largest of its kind in the United States.
The OC GRIP program involves multiple agencies and over 400 community partners such as the Anaheim Angels, Ford Motor Company, and Blizzard Entertainment, as well as over 4,000 volunteers to prevent kids from participating in gang activity and enhancing the relationship between the OCDA office, local law enforcement and community policing. OC GRIP also supports students by holding hundreds of parent intervention meetings, faculty presentations, and gang prevention education courses prepared and delivered by law enforcement officials in English and Spanish.
OC GRIP strives to improve academics, increase school attendance and improve students’ attitude.
About Taekwondojang:
Master Sergio Cardenas, owner of Taekwondojang in San Juan Capistrano, has hosted the OC GRIP Strikes for Success Athletic Enrichment Program for the past six years with over 160 students participating from the cities of San Juan Capistrano and San Clemente.  Santa Ana students have participated in the camp for two years. A 1999 World Medalist, Master Cardenas is a 6th degree black belt certified by the World Taekwondo Headquarters in South Korea with 33 years of experience in Martial Arts.
Tagged with:
OC GRIP
Summer Camp
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution
Media Advisory
Press
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
Press
OC GRIP Hosts Gang Prevention Training for School Employees
