Costa Mesa Couple will go to Trial in Murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos During Road Rage Incident on 55 Freeway, Judge Orders - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Costa Mesa Couple will go to Trial in Murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos During Road Rage Incident on 55 Freeway, Judge Orders
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
March 30, 2022
Home
Press
Costa Mesa Couple will go to Trial in Murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos During Road Rage Incident on 55 Freeway, Judge Orders
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  March 30, 2022
Case # 21CF1703
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A judge has ordered a Costa Mesa couple to stand trial in the murder of a 6-year-old boy during a road rage incident on the 55 freeway last May. The 23-year-old driver of getaway vehicle has been charged with being an accessory after the fact and having a concealed weapon in her vehicle.
Marcus Anthony Eriz, 25, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of murder, one felony count of shooting into an occupied vehicle, and one felony enhancements of the personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death. He faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Wynne Lee, 23, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact and one misdemeanor count of having a concealed firearm in a vehicle. She faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Eriz is currently being held without bail.  Lee was released on electronic monitoring.
Lee and Eriz are scheduled to be arraigned at 9 a.m. on April 12, 2022 in Department C5 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
Just after 8 a.m. on Friday, May 21, 2021, 6-year-old Aiden Leos was shot and killed while in the back seat of his mother’s car while on the 55 freeway near Chapman Avenue following a road rage incident. Leos was on his way to kindergarten at Calvary Chapel in Yorba Linda.
The California Highway Patrol launched an intense manhunt for the shooter that spanned Southern California, including issuing a public plea for tips about the whereabouts of the suspects’ 2018/2019 white Volkswagen Sportwagen.
Eriz and Lee were arrested by the California Highway Patrol on Sunday, June 6, 2021.
“A monster with a gun murdered a little boy on his way to kindergarten – because he was cut off on the freeway,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The callousness of this crime is unspeakable, but the fact that this couple continued to hide out in plain sight knowing full well they killed a 6-year-old child while Aiden’s grieving parents pleaded with the killers to come forward is unforgivable. I made it very clear that they needed to turn themselves in and I would take that into consideration and they continued to hide. I’m extremely grateful to the CHP and their investigators who worked tirelessly to solve this case. Together, we will never stop fighting for justice for Aiden and hold this coldblooded killer accountable.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Concealed Weapon
Marcus Anthony Eriz
Shooting
Wynne Lee
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Costa Mesa Woman Pleads Guilty to Being an Accessory after the Fact in Murder of 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Press
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Press
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
