Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Convicted of Filing a False Police Report - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Convicted of Filing a False Police Report
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 8, 2021
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Convicted of Filing a False Police Report
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case #20CF2469
Date: January 9, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy
Convicted of Filing a False Police Report
Deputy took theft suspect’s credit card and gave it to her son to use
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s deputy pleaded guilty today to filing a false police report in connection with taking a credit card from a suspect. She later gave the card to her son who then used it.
Angelina Cortez, 41, was charged in September with one felony count of filing a false police report. An Orange County Superior Court judge reduced the charge to a misdemeanor today over the objection of prosecutors. The judge sentenced Cortez to 120 hours community service and one year informal probation. She had faced a maximum sentence of three years in jail if convicted.
Cortez was assigned to a training officer on November 19, 2018 when she and her training officer responded to a call of a man stealing wine and batteries from a San Clemente 7-Eleven store. Cortez is accused of taking the theft suspect’s credit card, putting it in her uniform shirt pocket and later giving it to her son, who then used it. The card was never booked into evidence.
“The public must be able to trust that law enforcement officers will carry out their duties lawfully,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “When the law is broken by the very people who are entrusted to enforce it, the integrity of the entire criminal justice system is compromised. We will not allow the rule of law to be abused by someone in a position of power who chooses to prey on the vulnerable.”
Tagged with:
Angelina Cortez
False Police Report
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Charged with Filing False Police Report, Perjury
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged With Filing a False Police Report
Press
Anaheim Police Officer Charged with Perjury, Filing a False Police Report
