Second-Striker Sentenced to Four Years for Child Abuse, Endangerment after 10-month-old Daughter Ingested His Fentanyl - Infant had to be revived with Narcan; Defendant had faced a maximum sentence of 23 years in state prison but accepted court offer over objection of prosecutors. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Second-Striker Sentenced to Four Years for Child Abuse, Endangerment after 10-month-old Daughter Ingested His Fentanyl – Infant had to be revived with Narcan; Defendant had faced a maximum sentence of 23 years in state prison but accepted court offer over objection of prosecutors.
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
December 6, 2022
Home
Press
Second-Striker Sentenced to Four Years for Child Abuse, Endangerment after 10-month-old Daughter Ingested His Fentanyl – Infant had to be revived with Narcan; Defendant had faced a maximum sentence of 23 years in state prison but accepted court offer over objection of prosecutors.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 6, 2022
Case #: 22WF1705
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Relations
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Second-Striker Sentenced to Four Years for Child Abuse, Endangerment after 10-month-old Daughter Ingested His Fentanyl
Infant had to be revived with Narcan; Defendant had faced a maximum sentence of 23 years in state prison but accepted court offer over objection of prosecutors.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A second striker has been sentenced to four years in state prison after his 10-month-old daughter had to be revived with Narcan after ingesting his fentanyl from a straw in June.
Jovany Armando EncisoSolorio, 31, of Santa Ana, pleaded guilty to one felony count of child abuse and endangerment and one felony enhancement of causing great bodily injury on a child under the age of five years old in exchange for the court offer of four years. Prosecutors objected to the court offer.
EncisoSolorio had faced a maximum sentence of 23 years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
On June 25, 2022, EncisoSolorio used Narcan to revive his lifeless 10-month-old daughter after she sucked on a straw containing fentanyl. After changing his story several times to the police, EncisoSolorio ultimately admitted that he had used the straw to use fentanyl but attempted to take credit for saving his daughter’s life by administering Narcan to the infant.
EncisoSolorio has a prior strike for a 2009 second degree robbery conviction with a criminal gang enhancement.
“Fentanyl is a deadly game of Russian roulette – for the people who know they’re taking it, for the people who have no idea what they are taking actually contains fentanyl, and for innocent babies like this who rely on adults to protect them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This baby was literally just a few breaths away from dying. Four years in state prison is not enough for someone whose entire job is to protect their child from harm – and instead hands them what equates to a loaded gun.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Fentanyl
Jovany Armando EncisoSolorio
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Vehicular Manslaughter While Intoxicated after Toxicology Confirms Long Beach Woman Had Fentanyl, Methamphetamine, and Marijuana in her System When She Killed Bicyclist, Critically Injured Two Others
Press
Las Vegas Man Charged with Felony Child Abuse and Endangerment after Three-year-old Relative Tested Positive for Fentanyl after Fourth of July Weekend Family Trip to Newport Beach
Press
Mother of 23-month-old Boy who Stopped Breathing after being Exposed to Fentanyl is Charged with Felony Child Abuse, Endangerment
