Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit has been Charged with DUI, Hit and Run in Crash that Critically Injured Father, Two Young Children - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit has been Charged with DUI, Hit and Run in Crash that Critically Injured Father, Two Young Children
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
July 10, 2024
Home
Press
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit has been Charged with DUI, Hit and Run in Crash that Critically Injured Father, Two Young Children
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 10, 2024
Case #: 24WF1884
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit has been Charged
with DUI, Hit and Run in Crash that Critically Injured Father, Two Young Children
Five-year-old boy remains in a coma without brain activity; Mother, 7-Month-old girl suffered minor injuries.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man who was driving with a blood alcohol content nearly three times the legal limit has been charged with driving under the influence and hit and run for seriously injuring a mother and father and their three young children, including their five-year-old son who remains in a coma without brain activity, as they were riding their bikes on a Garden Grove street Sunday.
A driver who witnessed the crash followed the driver after he drove away until police stopped him.
Ceferino Ascencion Ramos, 29, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing bodily injury, one felony count of driving with blood alcohol of .08% or more causing bodily injury, one felony count of hit and run with permanent injury or death, and one felony count of hit and run with injury.
Ramos has also been in charged with two felony enhancements for causing brain injury and paralysis and one felony enhancement of great bodily injury. He faces a maximum sentence of 11 years if convicted on all charges. The charges may be upgraded if the conditions of the injured worsen.
On Sunday, July 7, 2024, Angel Ramirez and Angela Hernandez-Mejia were riding e-bikes with their three young children just after 7 p.m. in Garden Grove on Haster near Twintree Lane. Angela was in front with the couple’s 7-month-old daughter being pulled behind in a bike trailer and Angel was pulling a trailer with their 5-year-old son and 6-year-old daughter inside.
A witness saw the family riding on the right side of the road as Ramos drove into all five members of the family before he drove away. The witness called police and followed Ramos until police could catch up to them and arrest him. Ramos had a blood alcohol content of .22 nearly three times the legal limit of .08.
Angel remains in a coma after he suffered a fractured skull and a brain bleed. Their five-year-old son remains in a coma without any brain activity and their six-year-old daughter remains in critical condition after undergoing surgery. The little girl turned seven years old the day after the collision. Angela and the couple’s 7-month-old suffered minor injuries but are expected to survive.
“Instead of blowing out her birthday candles, a little girl spent her seventh birthday in the hospital fighting for her life the day after being run over along with her entire family by a drunk driver,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “They were just riding their bikes, enjoying a hot summer day, and now that little girl, her brother, and their dad are just hoping to make it to her next birthday. This is a tragedy that should have never happened, but it did because of the selfish decision by a stranger to get behind the wheel drunk. We are praying for Angel and for their two children to make miraculous recoveries and to be able to celebrate many, many more birthdays the way birthdays should be celebrated and not in hospital beds.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Devin Campbell of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Ceferino Ascencion Ramos
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Sentenced to 16 Years, 4 Months for Crashing into Family of Five, Killing 5-old-Boy, Critically injuring His Father and 6-year-old Sister
Press
Man Who was Driving with Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter after 5-year-old Boy Dies a Week after Hit-and-Run Crash
