Final Fugitive Arrested in Las Vegas and Charged in Irvine Home Invasion Robbery that Left Residents Held at Gunpoint and Duct Taped - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
12 min read
Final Fugitive Arrested in Las Vegas and Charged in Irvine Home Invasion Robbery that Left Residents Held at Gunpoint and Duct Taped
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
December 9, 2025
Home
Press
Final Fugitive Arrested in Las Vegas and Charged in Irvine Home Invasion Robbery that Left Residents Held at Gunpoint and Duct Taped
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 9, 2025
Case #: 25HF2595 consolidated from #25HF3105
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Final Fugitive Arrested in Las Vegas and Charged in Irvine Home Invasion
Robbery that
Left Residents Held at Gunpoint and Duct Taped
Multi-agency effort between the Irvine Police Department, Orange County District Attorney’s Office, U.S. Marshals Service, and the
San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department
Resulted in Seven Defendants Arrested and Charged in Robbery Targeting Millions in Cryptocurrency
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A manhunt for the last of seven defendants who carried out a brazen early morning home invasion robbery and kidnapping in Irvine that left residents duct taped and held at gunpoint in an attempt to steal millions of dollars in cryptocurrency has come to an end with the fugitive’s arrest in Las Vegas as part of a multi-agency, multi-month effort by the Irvine Police Department, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, the U.S. Marshals Service, and the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
All seven of the defendants charged in the robbery and kidnapping face possible life sentences if convicted on all charges.
“The men and women of the Irvine Police Department work tirelessly every day to keep our community safe,” said Irvine Police Chief Michael Kent. “This case highlights our ongoing warning to criminal offenders: Don’t commit crime in Irvine.”
Darnell Trevon Anderson Walker, 23, of Corona, was tracked to Nevada and arrested on Monday, December 1, 2025, by the U.S. Marshals in conjunction with investigators from the Irvine Police Department and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is in the process of extraditing Walker back to Orange County to face criminal charges.
“We pursue violent offenders who believe they can run from justice and not be held accountable for their actions,” said U.S. Marshals Service Chief Inspector Sean LoPiccolo. “The arrests of these suspects illustrate the value of collaboration and partnerships we share within the law enforcement community.”
“There is no escaping the long arm of Orange County law enforcement,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Irvine detectives worked for months tracking down these suspects, and in collaboration with the Orange District Attorney’s Office, the U.S. Marshals Service, and the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, we are doing everything we can to collectively bring these criminals to justice. Every Orange County resident should be able to sleep soundly knowing that Orange County law enforcement is keeping unwavering watch over our communities and that those individuals who come to Orange County to commit crimes will be identified, arrested, and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Walker is one of seven defendants charged in the September 23, 2025, early morning home invasion robbery in the 5000 block of Royale Avenue in Irvine. One of the defendants, 25-year-old Tommy Levion-Elijah Davis, was released from custody over the objection of prosecutors after he was arrested and charged in a Fourth of July attempted residential burglary in Laguna Niguel.
At about 3:30 a.m., on September 23, 2025, a man was sleeping with his wife and infant son when he heard glass break and shouted to alert his brother-in-law who owned the home that someone was breaking in. When the man went downstairs to investigate the noise, he and his brother-in-law were held at gunpoint while their hands were duct taped behind their backs and duct tape was put over their mouths by the intruders. The intruders also grabbed two women from upstairs and brought them downstairs. The wife of one of the men who had been duct taped locked herself in a bedroom with her children and called 911, but when she opened the door to see what was happening, one of the intruders grabbed her cell phone and ran out of the house with the other two intruders. The stolen cell phone was found a short distance away.
The camera of one of the victims’ Tesla captured a white Dodge Charger in front of the victims’ home right before the break in. Irvine police with assistance from the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, and the U.S. Marshals were able to identify and arrest seven individuals suspected in the home invasion robbery.
Walker has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery in concert, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. He faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years.
Kahlil Thomas Ware, 19, of Riverside County, has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. He faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years. Ware is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on no bail.
Tommy Levion-Elijah Davis, 25, of Montclair, was released from custody over the objection of prosecutors for a July 4, 2025, attempted residential burglary in Laguna Niguel when he is accused of participating in the September 23, 2025, home invasion robbery in Irvine. In connection with the Irvine case, Davis is charged with six felony counts of committing a secondary offense while released from custody, four felony counts of kidnapping for robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in the commission of a felony, and five felony enhancements acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property.
In connection with the Laguna Niguel case, Davis has been charged with one felony count of attempted burglary of an inhabited dwelling, one felony enhancement of being armed with a firearm in the commission of a felony, one felony enhancement of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property, and one misdemeanor count of carrying a concealed firearm in a vehicle.
He faces a maximum sentence of 44 years to life plus 12 years 8 months if convicted on all counts. Davis is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on no bail.
Lee Roy Ford, 25, of Adelanto, has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. He faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years if convicted on all counts. Ford is currently out on bond for a bail amount of $100,000.
Jazamine Louise Garner, 21, of Los Angeles, has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. She faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years if convicted on all counts. Garner is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $100,000 bail.
Mike O Clarence Bonam-Hillman, 28, of Victorville, has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. He faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years if convicted on all counts. Bonam-Hillman is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on no bail.
Nathan Sin, 21, of Upland, has been charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit robbery, one felony count of first-degree robbery, one felony count of first-degree burglary, six felony enhancements of being armed with a firearm in commission of a felony, and six felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more people to take or destroy any property. He faces a maximum sentence of 44 to life plus 10 years if convicted on all counts. Sin is currently being held on no bail.
Deputy District Attorney Gerard Gully of HIT is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Darnell Trevon Anderson Walker
HIT
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Seven Los Angeles County Men, including Suspect who was Wearing a GPS Ankle Monitor, Charged in Violent Smash-and-Grab Robbery at Anaheim Hills Jewelry Store that Ended in Multiple Collisions During Getaway, Injuring Innocent Bystanders
