Man Charged with Child Molestation for Victimizing 14-Year-Old Boy - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Man Charged with Child Molestation for Victimizing 14-Year-Old Boy
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 24, 2019
Home
Press
Man Charged with Child Molestation for Victimizing 14-Year-Old Boy
Investigators are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims
https://ocdistrictattorney.gov/images/Jesus_Caballero_booking_photo.jpg
SANTA ANA, Calif. –An Orange County dance instructor who specializes in preparing teenagers for quinceaneras has been charged with one felony count of child molestation for sexually abusing one of his 14-year-old students. Investigators are asking for the public’s help in identifying any other potential victims.
Jesus Alamilla Caballero, 46, Santa Ana was arrested on May 17, 2019 by Orange Police Department. Caballero is charged with one felony count of lewd and lascivious acts upon a child age 14 or 15.
Caballero is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned in Department CJ-1 at 10 a.m. on May 31. If convicted, Caballero faces a maximum of three years in state prison.
In April of 2018, the defendant is accused of performing lewd and lascivious acts on 14-year-old John Doe after driving him home following quinceañera dance lessons. The victim later confided in his mother about the abuse and she contacted police.
The Orange Police Department is asking for the public’s help in locating any other potential victims. Anyone who has information related to this investigation or any other un-reported incidents involving Caballero is urged to call the Investigations Division line at 714-744-7571.
Deputy District Attorney Devin Crowley of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Jesus Alamilla Caballero
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 8 =
