29-Year-Old Man Charged with Multiple Felonies after Grabbing Fountain Valley Officer’s Gun, Firing Round and Biting Police Sergeant after Refusing to Leave Police Department Lobby - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
29-Year-Old Man Charged with Multiple Felonies after Grabbing Fountain Valley Officer’s Gun, Firing Round and Biting Police Sergeant after Refusing to Leave Police Department Lobby
Author
Chase Healy
Published
December 24, 2025
Home
Press
29-Year-Old Man Charged with Multiple Felonies after Grabbing Fountain Valley Officer’s Gun, Firing Round and Biting Police Sergeant after Refusing to Leave Police Department Lobby
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 24, 2025
Case #: 25WF5808
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
29-Year-Old Man Charged with Multiple Felonies after Grabbing
Fountain Valley Officer’s Gun, Firing Round and Biting Police Sergeant
after Refusing to Leave Police Department Lobby
SANTA ANA – A 29-year-old man on probation for resisting a police officer has been charged with multiple felonies after he grabbed a Fountain Valley police officer’s gun, fired a round, and bit a police sergeant as officers were trying to arrest him for refusing to obey repeated orders to leave the Fountain Valley Police Department’s lobby last week. No one was injured by the gunfire.
Walter Corea Sanchez, 29, of Fountain Valley, has been charged with one felony count of assault with a semiautomatic  firearm on a peace officer, one felony count of aggravated assault on a peace officer, two felony counts of obstructing or resisting an executive officer, one felony count of grossly negligent discharge of a firearm, one misdemeanor count of resisting a public officer with attempted firearm removal, one misdemeanor count of resisting a peace officer, and one misdemeanor count of disturbing the peace.  He has pleaded not guilty.
Sanchez faces a maximum sentence of 31 years and eight months in state prison if convicted on all charges. He is currently on felony probation after he pled guilty in August to resisting an executive officer.
On Friday, December 19, 2025, at approximately 9:54 a.m., Sanchez is accused of entering the lobby of the Fountain Valley Police Department and yelling and acting erratically when officers tried to speak with him. Sanchez is accused of pacing back and forth for approximately ten minutes, yelling at officers and desk staff and raising his hands toward the faces of several police officers. Officers walked Sanchez out of the lobby and told Sanchez he needed to leave and that if he tried to enter the lobby again, he would be arrested.
Sanchez followed the officers back into the lobby, and when three officers approached to arrest him,  he ran outside to the front of the police department. Officers again told Sanchez to leave, but instead, Sanchez is accused of placing his backpack on the ground and trying to take something out. Officers began to arrest Sanchez, but as he was being pulled to the ground, Sanchez is accused of grabbing one of the officer’s guns, pulling the trigger and firing off a round. No one was hit by the bullet.
Sanchez is also accused of biting a Fountain Valley police sergeant who was assisting in the arrest.  The sergeant used his Taser on Sanchez multiple times, and Sanchez was taken into custody by four Fountain Valley police officers.
“A police badge should not be a target on the back of our law enforcement officers, our sworn protectors,” said Orange County District Attorney Spitzer. “A willingness to attack a uniformed police officer, grab the officer’s gun and fire it in an attempt to avoid arrest shows a complete disregard for the rule of law and the safety of our communities, and we will prosecute those acts of violence to the fullest extent of the law. We are so grateful that these officers were not seriously injured in what could have easily turned into a deadly tragedy.”
Deputy District Attorney Heather Heslep-Morrissey of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Crimes Against Peace Officers
Walter Corea Sanchez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 2 =
