Former Stanton City Councilmember Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying on Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election for a City Council Seat in a District in Which She Did Not Live, Illegally Voting - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Former Stanton City Councilmember Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying on Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election for a City Council Seat in a District in Which She Did Not Live, Illegally Voting
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
January 17, 2025
Home
Press
Former Stanton City Councilmember Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying on Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election for a City Council Seat in a District in Which She Did Not Live, Illegally Voting
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 17, 2025
Case #: 25WF0136
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Stanton City Councilmember Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying on Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election for a City Council Seat in a District in Which She Did Not Live, Illegally Voting
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Stanton City Councilmember has been charged with multiple felonies for forging nomination paperwork to run for re-election for a City Council seat in a district in which she did not live and illegally voting in the November 5, 2024, general election.
Hong Alyce Van, 40, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of perjury, one felony count of offering a false or forged document to be filed, registered, or recorded, one felony count of filing false nomination papers, and one felony account of not being entitled to vote at an election.
Van is scheduled to be arraigned on January 29, 2025, at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W12. She faces a maximum sentence of six years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Van was elected in November 2020 to represent Stanton’s City Council District #2, but less than a year after her election Van is accused of purchasing a home in Stanton City Council District #4 with her husband and son. Despite no longer living in her district, Van did not resign as required by law and continued to serve as the District #2 City Councilmember. Van did not sell her home in District #2, which was located next to the home where her parents live and allowed other family members to live in her former home.
While serving on the City Council, Van is accused of leaving her home located in Stanton City Council District #4, driving to her former residence in Stanton City Council District #2, and then walking to Stanton City Hall to attend City Council meetings.
On July 23, 2024, Van submitted an Affidavit of Nominee, which she signed under penalty of perjury, to run for re-election for Stanton City Council District #2, despite the fact that she no longer lived in the district and was therefore ineligible to run for the City Council seat.
Van’s voter registration continued to list her former District #2 address after she moved and she illegally cast her vote in the November 2024 election while being registered at her former address.
“The integrity of our elections will be safeguarded and political candidates who lie and cheat the system in order to get elected will be prosecuted,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These are not mistakes. These are deliberate decisions to interfere with our democratic process and they will not be tolerated.”
Deputy District Attorney Heather Heslep-Morrissey of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Hong Alyce Van
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
