Orange County District Attorney’s Office Recovers $95,870 in Restitution from former Santa Ana Police Officer Convicted of Committing Workers’ Compensation Fraud; Jonathan Ridge’s conviction prevents him from working as a police officer and bars him from any pension benefits - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Recovers $95,870 in Restitution from former Santa Ana Police Officer Convicted of Committing Workers’ Compensation Fraud; Jonathan Ridge’s conviction prevents him from working as a police officer and bars him from any pension benefits
Author
Chase Healy
Published
March 2, 2023
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Recovers $95,870 in Restitution from former Santa Ana Police Officer Convicted of Committing Workers’ Compensation Fraud; Jonathan Ridge’s conviction prevents him from working as a police officer and bars him from any pension benefits
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 2, 2023
Case # 20CF1619
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Recovers $95,870 in Restitution from former Santa Ana Police Officer Convicted of Committing Workers’ Compensation Fraud
Jonathan Ridge’s conviction prevents him from working as a police officer and bars him from any pension benefits
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 39-year old Santa Ana police officer convicted of committing workers’ compensation insurance fraud for continuing to accept his full pay without working even though he was physically capable of returning to work has repaid the City all of the stolen wages as a result of efforts by the Orange County District Attorney’s Insurance Fraud unit. The total amount repaid in restitution was $95,870.
On October 5, 2017, Santa Ana Police Officer Jonathan Ridge was injured on duty while in pursuit of a suspect driving a stolen vehicle.  On that day, October 5, 2017, Ridge went out on disability leave due to his injuries. On May 2, 2018, while still on leave, Ridge had surgery on his left wrist, and his doctor continued to keep him off work while he was recovering from the surgery.
In November 2018, Ridge was released by a doctor to return to work with restrictions. The work restrictions were too severe for the City of Santa to accommodate, despite the City of Santa Ana having an extensive return-to-work program for injured employees. This resulted in the City of Santa Ana being required to continue to pay Ridge Total Temporary Disability and for Ridge to receive disability payments through an insurance policy, resulting in Ridge receiving 100% of his pay without working.
From March 2019 to May 2019 the City of Santa Ana authorized surveillance on Ridge because he did not seem to improve despite having had surgery on his wrist in May 2018 for injuries sustained in the on-duty collision 18 months earlier.
The surveillance and subsequent investigation found that Ridge was engaging in activities well beyond what the doctor had imposed.  Ridge began attending college classes nearly full-time beginning in June 2018 – just weeks after his surgery. Additionally, he packed up his car and drove to Utah, went to the beach, and drove his motorcycle. Ridge failed to disclose to his doctor or to the City of Santa Ana what he was actually capable of doing. This deprived the doctor of the opportunity to impose realistic work restrictions that the City of Santa Ana could accommodate.  Instead, Ridge continued to receive 100% of his pay without working even though he was capable of returning to work in a modified position.
Ridge pleaded guilty on April 16, 2021 to three felony counts of insurance fraud and one felony count of making a fraudulent statement to obtain compensation.  He had faced a maximum sentence of eight years in state prison if convicted on all counts. Ridge was sentenced to 180 days in the Orange County Jail with the sentenced stayed if he paid back the stolen wages in a timely manner.
“Workers’ compensation fraud costs honest, hardworking businesses and government entities more than $30 billion a year,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We will not allow those who commit workers’ compensation fraud to go unpunished because the financial cost to government and private business makes the cost of doing business more and more difficult. Thankfully, our Insurance Fraud Unit ensured the taxpayers of Santa Ana were fully reimbursed for the money stolen by this officer.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Pamela Leitao of the Insurance Fraud Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Insurance Fraud
Jonathan Ridge
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
Press
Former Westminster Police Officer Caught Drinking and Dancing at Stagecoach Music Festival while Claiming a Head Injury Prevented her from Working Charged with 15 Felonies for Committing Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fraud, Stealing More than $600,000 from Taxpayers
Press
Man Banned for Life from California’s Workers’ Compensation System for Past Felony Fraud Convictions Charged in Extensive Workers’ Compensation Fraud Scheme with San Diego Neurosurgeon, Two Others for Billing Nearly $100  Million in Fraudulent Fees
