Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years - Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years – Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
March 2, 2022
Home
Press
Children’s Music Teacher Charged with a Dozen Felonies for Molesting Two Young Girls over Several Years – Authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 2, 2022
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential sexual assault victims of a Costa Mesa music teacher who has been charged with a dozen felonies for molesting two young girls over a period of several years, beginning when the girls were just four and five years old.
Anthony (Tony) Philip Bruccoliere, 49, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with four felony counts of a forcible lewd act upon a child under 14, one felony count of sexual penetration with a child 10 years or younger, five felony counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child, and two felony counts of lewd and lascivious acts upon a child under the age of 14.
Bruccoliere faces a maximum sentence of 180 years to life if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held at the Central Men’s Jail on $1 million bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on March 4, 2022, in W12.
Costa Mesa Police Department detectives arrested Bruccoliere on February 11, 2022, after two teenage girls reported that he had molested them multiple times over a period of years. Bruccoliere is accused of molesting the girls in numerous locations, including his music studio, between 2008 and 2019.
“This man has become a parent’s worst nightmare by preying on innocent young girls,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The years of trauma these girls were forced to endure is unspeakable. The pain and suffering of sexual assault do not just end when the physical attack is over; the psychological damage continues throughout the victims’ entire life. I will do everything in my power under the law to keep this monster behind bars and ensure he is no longer able to hurt another child.”
Authorities believe Bruccoliere’s occupation as a music teacher and his access to children may have resulted in other children being sexually assaulted.
Anyone who may have additional information regarding this case or other potential victims is asked to contact Costa Mesa Police Detective Alicia DeFuria at 714-754-5364 or adefuria@costamesaca.gov or Sergeant Jose Morales at 714-754-48933.
Deputy District Attorney Alyssa Staudinger of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
to view the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Aggravated Sexual Assault of a Minor
Anthony (Tony) Philip Bruccoliere
Lewd Acts upon a Child
Sexual Assault
Teacher
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
