34-year-old Man Convicted of Special Circumstances Murders of His Parents, Housekeeper after Ultimatum from Parents to Check into Mental Health and Addiction Treatment - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
34-year-old Man Convicted of Special Circumstances Murders of His Parents, Housekeeper after Ultimatum from Parents to Check into Mental Health and Addiction Treatment
Author
Chase Healy
Published
October 22, 2025
Home
Press
34-year-old Man Convicted of Special Circumstances Murders of His Parents, Housekeeper after Ultimatum from Parents to Check into Mental Health and Addiction Treatment
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 22, 2025
Case #: 19HF0197
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
34-year-old Man Convicted of Special Circumstances Murders of His Parents,
Housekeeper
after Ultimatum from Parents to Check into Mental Health and Addiction
Treatment
Santa Ana – A 34-year-old man has been convicted by a jury of three counts of special circumstance murder for stabbing his parents to death in their Newport Beach home following an ultimatum by his parents to check into a mental health and addiction treatment facility and then slitting the throat of their housekeeper when she showed up for work the next day
In addition to finding Camden Burton Nicholson guilty of three counts of first-degree murder, a jury also found him guilty of the special circumstance of committing multiple murders.
After killing his parents and their housekeeper, Camden Nicholson used his parents’ car to go on shopping sprees, including spending hundreds of dollars at a Santa Ana marijuana dispensary and buying sex toys.
Lawyers for Camden Nicholson, 34, have argued that he had been diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder and should be found not guilty by reason of insanity for killing his parents, 64-year-old Richard Nicholson, and Kim Nicholson, 61, along with 57-year-old Maria Morse of Anaheim. The sanity phase of the trial is scheduled to begin on Thursday, October 23, 2025, to determine whether Nicholson was criminally insane at the time of the murders.
Those verdicts will determine whether Nicholson is sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole or if he will be sent to a mental health facility.
On February 11, 2019, Nicholson confronted his father in their Newport Beach home and stabbed him repeatedly. When Nicholson’s mother returned home a few minutes later, he hit her with a metal statue and repeatedly stabbed her, killing her in the garage.
The next morning, Nicholson attacked the family’s longtime housekeeper, Maria Morse, when she arrived to clean the house. Nicholson stabbed Morse repeatedly and slit her throat before stuffing her body in a large plastic bin in the kitchen pantry.
At about 8:30 p.m. on Feb 13, 2019, a day after he killed his family’s housekeeper, Nicholson drove his father’s car to a Kaiser Permanente facility in Irvine where he dialed 911 and reported that he had killed his parents in self-defense because they were trying to kill him.
Newport Beach police officers conducting a welfare check on the home of Nicholson’s parents found the house in disarray with blood throughout the house and the three victims with multiple stab wounds.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dave Porter of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Camden Burton Nicholson
Homicide
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
