“Most Wanted” Fugitive Peter Chadwick Who was Captured by U.S. and Mexican Authorities in Mexico Pleads Guilty to Second-Degree Murder for Killing His Wife in 2012 - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
“Most Wanted” Fugitive Peter Chadwick Who was Captured by U.S. and Mexican Authorities in Mexico Pleads Guilty to Second-Degree Murder for Killing His Wife in 2012
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 9, 2022
Home
Press
“Most Wanted” Fugitive Peter Chadwick Who was Captured by U.S. and Mexican Authorities in Mexico Pleads Guilty to Second-Degree Murder for Killing His Wife in 2012
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  February 9, 2022
Case # 12HF2960
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif.- A one-time “Most Wanted” fugitive who fled the country after being charged with murdering his wife and became the focus of an intense international manhunt before being captured in Mexico pleaded guilty today to murdering his wife nearly a decade after killing her in their Newport Beach home. Two of the couple’s three sons were found abandoned at a school bus stop after their parents failed to pick them up from school the day their mother was murdered.
Peter Chadwick, 57, of Newport Beach, was arrested at the Mexico border in San Diego in October 2012 and charged with the murder of his wife Quee Choo “Q.C.” Chadwick. Her husband led authorities to where her body was found wrapped in a blanket and discarded in a dumpster in San Diego County.
On the morning of Oct. 10, 2012, Chadwick is accused of murdering his wife in their Newport Beach home over a dispute regarding a possible divorce and related financial issues.
That afternoon, neither Chadwick nor the victim arrived to pick up their children from school. Another parent drove the children home and then requested a welfare check from the Newport Beach Police Department (NBPD) when the Chadwicks could not be located. A subsequent search of the home revealed blood and signs of a struggle inside. Newport Beach Police began investigating the whereabouts of the couple.
Sometime between the morning of the murder and the morning of Oct. 11, 2012, Chadwick is accused of driving to San Diego near the border of Mexico and contacting the San Diego Police Department. The defendant was arrested in San Diego on Oct. 11, 2012. He was out on $1 million bail when he failed to appear at a pre-trial hearing in January 2015.
The search for Chadwick took authorities across the United States, Canada and Mexico. Chadwick “strategically placed indicators” such as receipts from the Seattle area and literature about living in Canada in his father’s Santa Barbara home, where Chadwick was living after posting bail on December 21, 2012.
Authorities learned that Chadwick was receiving assistance from people close to his family, and the investigation led to Mexico, where he was detained by Mexican immigration authorities on August 4, 2019, near Puebla, Mexico.
The U.S. Marshals Service added Chadwick to its 15 Most Wanted fugitive list in September 2018.
In addition to agreeing to plead guilty to one felony count of second-degree murder, Chadwick waived any credits he had accumulated while in custody. He was sentenced to 15 years to life.
“Three young boys lost their entire reality the day their mother was murdered by their father,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It took years of painstaking police work to track down this defendant in order to hold him accountable for the murder of his wife and the mother of his three sons. In making the decision to accept a guilty plea, we carefully considered the wishes of Q.C.’s family, especially her sons who have already suffered the loss not only of their mother but also of their father at such a young age. We are forever grateful for the partnership of the Newport Beach Police Department, the U.S. Marshals, and the Mexican authorities in capturing this killer and helping us ensure justice is done for Q.C.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Walker of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
###
Tagged with:
Murder
Peter Chadwick
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
