Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life
Author
Justin Yun
Published
July 1, 2025
Home
Press
Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 1, 2025
Case # 24CF0472
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring
When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life
Santa Ana – A third-striker and twice-convicted rapist who was on parole on GPS monitoring when he opened fire on three people following an argument outside a Santa Ana discount store has been sentenced to 100 years to life. One person was wounded in the shooting.
Johnell Jackson, 40, of Fullerton, was convicted of three felony counts of attempted murder, three felony enhancements of attempted premeditated murder, three felony enhancements of discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury or death, and one felony count of discharging a firearm at an occupied vehicle.
Judge Walter Schwarm sentenced Jackson last week to three consecutive 25-years-to-life sentences for each of the three attempted murders along with an additional consecutive 25-years-to-life sentence for the victim who was wounded during the shooting.
On February 18, 2024, a man drove two acquaintances to the 99 Cent Store on Main St. in Santa Ana at around 10 p.m. and parked next to a white SUV.
Jackson was in the driver’s seat of the white SUV and got into a “joking-sounding argument” with the other driver, whom they believed knew Jackson from the tone of the conversation. When the driver drove away with the two other occupants inside, Jackson opened fire, shooting four to five rounds at the vehicle. The front passenger was wounded, but the other occupants of the vehicle escaped injury.
Police used Jackson’s GPS monitor to locate him at a nearby hotel, where he was found in possession of two guns and arrested.
“The violence Johnell Jackson has engaged in throughout his life is exactly why California voters supported Three Strikes to keep the state’s most violent criminals behind bars where they belong,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are grateful that Judge Schwarm exercised his discretion to protect the public and these victims from continuing to be victimized by someone who knew he was being monitored by law enforcement and opened fire on a moving vehicle anyway. Orange County is safer with Johnell Jackson off our streets and behind bars.”
Deputy District Attorney Nate Barrett of TARGET/GANGS prosecuted this case.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Gang
Johnell Jackson
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine Attorney Convicted of Killing Semi-Truck Driver While Driving Intoxicated in Fiery 2019 Freeway Crash
Press
Two MS-13 Gang Members Convicted of Murder in Stabbing at Lake Forest Hot Tub Left Victim Nearly Decapitated, Girlfriend Injured
Press
Three Men Charged with Stealing 1,278 Nike Air Jordan 11 Retro Shoes Worth More than $311,000 from Train Parked in Mojave Desert
