Uber Driver Charged with Kidnapping, Assaulting Passenger - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Uber Driver Charged with Kidnapping, Assaulting Passenger
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 11, 2020
Home
Press
Uber Driver Charged with Kidnapping, Assaulting Passenger
Case # 20CF2545
Man also charged with strangling second woman and threatening her
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 30-year-old Uber driver has been charged with kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 51-year-old woman who hired him to take her to work. He is also facing felony charges for assaulting and threatening a second woman.
Jason Humberto Rodas, of Garden Grove, has been charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit rape, one felony count of assault with intent to commit a sexual offense, one felony count of attempted forcible rape, two felony counts of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury, and one felony count of criminal threats against two victims.
He faces a maximum sentence of life plus seven years in state prison if convicted on all charges. Rodas is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail. His arraignment was continued until October 2, 2020.
On September 9, 2020, a 51-year-old woman called an Uber at 4 a.m. to take her to work. Rodas is accused of picking the woman up and taking her to a dark cul-de-sac instead of her destination. The woman ran from the vehicle, but Rodas is accused of grabbing her, strangling her and attempting to sexually assault her. She managed to escape and run to here workplace.
In August of 2020, Rodas is accused of strangling a woman after he threatened to strangle her. On September 4, 2020, he is accused of threatening to kill the woman. Jane Doe then contacted police to report the threats and the strangling.
“Rideshare services offer a valuable service that provides impaired drivers an alternative to getting behind the wheel and an option for transportation for people who otherwise do not have transportation,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Anyone who uses rideshare services should not have to live in fear that they will be sexually assaulted or otherwise victimized. Violence under any circumstance is not acceptable and will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Kristin Bracic of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Bodily Injury
Criminal threats
Jason Humberto Rodas
Kidnapping
Rape
Sexual Assault
Uber
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
