Charges Filed in Family Fight Caught on Video at Disneyland - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Charges Filed in Family Fight Caught on Video at Disneyland
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 23, 2019
Home
Press
Charges Filed in Family Fight Caught on Video at Disneyland
Charges Filed in Family Fight Caught on Video at Disneyland
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Three adults are facing criminal charges for their involvement in a brawl in the middle of Disneyland’s Toon Town that endangered their children on July 6, 2019. The melee was witnessed by other park guests and captured in a video that was widely shared on social media.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office does not tolerate domestic violence or child endangerment anywhere,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Avery Desmond-Edwinn Robinson, 35, of Las Vegas, is facing five felony charges and nine misdemeanors for attacking his sister, brother-in-law and girlfriend, endangering his child and three other children who were at Disneyland with the family, and threatening to kill members of his family as he drove out of a Disneyland parking structure. He is also accused of assaulting a Disneyland employee with his vehicle after the family was escorted out of the park by Disneyland security.
During the fight inside the park Avery Robinson made several comments, including “I’m ready to go to jail tonight” and referenced a Southern California gang.
Avery Robinson is facing one felony count of domestic battery with corporal injury and one felony count of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury on a woman with whom he was in a dating relationship. In addition he is facing one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon and two felony counts of criminal threats. He is also facing five misdemeanor counts of battery and four misdemeanor counts of child abuse and endangerment.
He faces a maximum of seven years and four months in state prison if convicted on all charges. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail. He is scheduled to be arraigned today, July 23, 2019, at the North Justice Center, 1275 N. Berkeley Avenue in Fullerton.
Robinson’s sister, Andrea Nicole Robinson is facing five misdemeanor charges, including four misdemeanor changes of battery for attacking her brother Avery, his girlfriend, and a Disneyland employee. She is also facing one count of misdemeanor assault for attacking her brother’s girlfriend.
Andrea Robinson, 40, of Compton, faces a maximum of 2 ½ years in jail if convicted on all counts.
Daman Petrie, 44, of Compton, is facing one misdemeanor count of battery. Petrie, who is married to Andrea Robinson, is accused of punching Avery Robinson’s girlfriend in the face during the melee.
Daman Petrie faces a maximum of six months in jail if convicted.
Several Disneyland guests repeatedly intervened in an attempt to stop the violence, including picking up at least one of the children in the group to get the child out of harm’s way and putting Avery Robinson in a chokehold.
The family was asked to leave Disneyland and escorted by Disneyland security back to a parking structure to retrieve their vehicles.
While in the structure, Avery Robinson is accused of attempting to hit a Disneyland employee with his vehicle and threatening to kill his sister Andrea and her husband Daman while simulating a gun with his hand and pointing at the couple.
Deputy District Attorney Elizabeth Nevers of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Andrea Nicole Robinson
Avery Desmond Edwinn Robinson
Child Abuse and Endangerment
Daman Petrie
Domestic Assault
Domestic Battery
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Husband Charged with Attempted Murder, Child Endangerment for Trying to Kill Estranged Wife at Child’s Flag Football Game
Press
Las Vegas Man Sentenced to 180 Days in Jail for Attacking Family Members During Disneyland Brawl
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Felony Domestic Battery
