Long Beach Man Charged with Murder for Hitting Bicyclist, Stabbing Him to Death in Dana Point - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Long Beach Man Charged with Murder for Hitting Bicyclist, Stabbing Him to Death in Dana Point
Author
Chase Healy
Published
February 3, 2023
Home
Press
Long Beach Man Charged with Murder for Hitting Bicyclist, Stabbing Him to Death in Dana Point
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 3, 2023
Case # 23HF0207
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Long Beach Man Charged with Murder for Hitting Bicyclist,
Stabbing Him to Death in Dana Point
There is no known connection between the defendant and the victim.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 39-year-old Long Beach man has been charged with murder for hitting a cyclist in Dana Point Wednesday afternoon and then stabbing him to death while bystanders tried to help the injured man. There is no known prior relationship between the victim and his accused killer.
Vanroy Evan Smith. 39, of Long Beach, has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of the personal use of a knife. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life plus one year if convicted on all charges.
He pleaded not guilty today in CJ1. Smith is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1 million bail and is scheduled to be back in court on February 14, 2023 for a pretrial hearing.
On Wednesday, February 1, 2023, Dr. Michael Mammone, 58, was riding his bicycle northbound on Pacific Coast Highway near the intersection of Crown Valley Parkway in Dana Point at approximately 3 p.m. when he was rammed by the driver of a white Lexus, later identified as Vanroy Evan Smith.
While Mammone was laying injured in the street, Smith is accused of using a knife to repeatedly stab Mammone. Smith was detained by bystanders who rushed to help the injured cyclist.
Mammone was transported to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead. Smith was arrested by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
“An innocent man is dead because he took a bike ride to enjoy a beautiful California day along the beach and he was hit with a car and stabbed to death by someone he apparently never met,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The murder of a complete stranger in broad daylight for what appears to be absolutely no reason is the stuff of nightmares. This unspeakable act of violence will forever haunt those who were forced to witness it and it will forever haunt all of those who loved Dr. Mammone.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Walker of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Vanroy Evan Smith
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 9 =
