Convicted Child Molester Third-Striker Sentenced to 25 years to Life for Brutally Attacking His Wife - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Convicted Child Molester Third-Striker Sentenced to 25 years to Life for Brutally Attacking His Wife
Author
Chase Healy
Published
November 25, 2025
Home
Press
Convicted Child Molester Third-Striker Sentenced to 25 years to Life for Brutally Attacking His Wife
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 25, 2025
Case #: 22NF1600
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Convicted Child Molester Third-Striker Sentenced to 25 years to Life
for Brutally Attacking His Wife
SANTA ANA – A convicted child molester third-striker who has spent nearly 40 years in prison for committing heinous acts of violence, including slitting his girlfriend’s throat and stabbing her five-year-old daughter’s eye out, has been sentenced to 25 years to life for brutally attacking his wife. The woman only managed to escape by banging on her neighbors’ doors while bloody and nearly nude, begging for help.
Gary Blane Bentley, 65, of La Palma, was convicted on September 18, 2025, of two felony counts of corporal battery on a spouse resulting in a traumatic condition. He was sentenced to 25 years to life earlier this month.
On June 24, 2022, Bentley punched his wife of two years repeatedly in the face, dragging her back into the bedroom of their La Palma apartment before she broke free. The attack left the couple’s apartment covered in blood as the nearly nude victim ran from her attacker, running outside to try to get help. The attack culminated years of unreported domestic violence against the victim. Bentley was on parole at the time, having served six years in state prison for an indecent exposure conviction in Los Angeles County.
La Palma police officers tracked Bentley down in Long Beach and arrested him.
Bentley was convicted of two prior “super strikes,” including a 1982 conviction in Los Angeles County for the attempted murder of his then-girlfriend and the maiming of her 5-year-old daughter, leaving the little girl permanently blind in one eye. He served 11 years in state prison for those crimes.
In 1990, Bentley was sentenced to 17 years in prison after he was convicted of continuously sexually assaulting a child under the age of 14 in Los Angeles County. In 2007, he was sentenced to 25 years to life after being convicted of another sex-related offense, but that sentence was overturned in 2009.  In 2011, he was sentenced to six years in state prison after being convicted in Los Angeles County of indecent exposure with a prior conviction.
“Gary Bentley and the reign of terror he has inflicted on women and children throughout his entire life is exactly why California’s Three Strikes Law exists,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. ”There are certain individuals who have inflicted so much pain and violence on other human beings that they cannot continue to live among civilized society. For decades, Gary Bentley has committed crime after crime with callousness, without remorse, and there has not been a single period of time when he has lived a law-abiding life. Society is safer as a result of the incredibly advocacy of the La Palma Police Department and Deputy District Attorney Sharlene Mandella to ensure justice for the victim in this case and to prevent future women and children from becoming victimized.”
Deputy District Attorney Sharlene Mandella of the Family Protection Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Family Protection
Gary Blane Bentley
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Charges Upgraded to Involuntary Manslaughter Against Aliso Viejo Mother Whose 14-year-old Son Killed Vietnam Veteran While Child was  Illegally Riding an E-motorcycle 16 Times More Powerful than an e-Bike  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Aliso Viejo Mother Charged with Felony Child Endangerment After Vietnam Veteran Critically Injured When He Was Hit by Woman’s 14-Year-old Son Illegally Riding an E-Motorcycle 16 Times  More Powerful than E-Bike Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer warns parents he will  prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law when they allow their children to ride illegal motor vehicles and endanger their safety and the safety of others.
Press
Yorba Linda Father Charged with Felony Child Endangerment and Abuse, Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor after 12-Year-old Son was Critically Injured while Illegally Riding E-motorcycle He Helped his Son Modify
