Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County – Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
September 27, 2022
Home
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County – Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 27, 2022
Case #: 22WF1236
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent
Attacks Targeting
Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County
Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A self-proclaimed “incel” who posted videos of himself pepper spraying and harassing women on his YouTube channel wanted on a warrant for multiple felony assaults and hate crime enhancements in connection with a series of violent attacks targeting unsuspecting women in Orange County has been captured and transported back to Orange County to face charges.
Johnny Deven Young, 25, of Anaheim, has been charged with four felony counts of assault with great bodily injury, four felony counts of illegal use of tear gas, four felony enhancements for the personal use of a deadly weapon, and eight felony hate crime enhancements. He was also charged with five misdemeanor counts of violation of civil rights.
Young appeared in court Monday after being arrested on a warrant in San Mateo County.  His bail was set at $500,000 and his arraignment was continued to October 10, 2022 at the Central Justice Center in Department C5.
He faces a maximum sentence of 13 years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Young has a prior misdemeanor hate crime conviction in Nevada. He was transported to Orange County Jail last week after being convicted on a misdemeanor case in San Mateo County.
An incel – which stands for involuntary in celibate is a member of an online community of men who exhibit their sexual frustrations by voicing their misogynistic views against women. Young was identified by the Costa Mesa Police Department as a suspect in two attacks on women after social media sites circulated several of Young’s videos. The attacks involved four women and a man who tried to stop one of the assaults.
“No one should have to live in fear that they could be indiscriminately attacked and then publicly humiliated on the Internet because of their gender,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.  “This behavior is disgusting and the celebration of this behavior by like-minded individuals is completely unacceptable. These charges send a very strong message to that entire community that we will not tolerate violence against women in any form.”
Deputy District Attorney Billy Ha of the Hate Crimes Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Assault
Hate Crime
Johnny Deven Young
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
