Mother Charged with Slitting 11-year-old Son’s Throat in Santa Ana Motel After Three Days at Disneyland During Custody Visitation - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Mother Charged with Slitting 11-year-old Son’s Throat in Santa Ana Motel After Three Days at Disneyland During Custody Visitation
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
March 21, 2025
Home
Press
Mother Charged with Slitting 11-year-old Son’s Throat in Santa Ana Motel After Three Days at Disneyland During Custody Visitation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 21, 2025
Case #: 25CF0961
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Mother Charged with Slitting 11-year-old Son’s Throat in
Santa Ana Motel After Three Days at Disneyland During Custody Visitation
Boy was scheduled to be returned to his father the day he was killed.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A mother has been charged with one felony count of murder for slitting her 11-year-old son’s throat, killing the boy after a three-day vacation to Disneyland during a custody visit.
The boy, who was scheduled to be returned to his father on Wednesday, was instead found by police that morning dead on the motel room’s bed among Disneyland souvenirs after his mother called 911 to report she had killed her son.
The boy’s mother, Saritha Ramaraju, 48, was released from the hospital on Thursday after ingesting an unknown substance and arrested on suspicion of stabbing the 11-year-old to death.
Ramaraju has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of personal use of a weapon, a knife. She faces a maximum sentence of 26 years to life if convicted on all charges. She is scheduled to be arraigned today.
Ramaraju, who moved out of state after divorcing the boy’s father in 2018, was staying with her son at the La Quinta Inn, in the 2700 block of Hotel Terrace, in Santa Ana for a custody visit. During the visit, she bought three-day passes to Disneyland for herself and her son.
On Wednesday, March 19, 2025, the day Ramaraju was scheduled to check out of the motel and return the boy to his father, Ramaraju called 911 at 9:12 a.m. to report that she had killed her 11-year-old son and had taken pills trying to kill herself. Santa Ana police arrived at the motel and arrested Ramaraju on suspicion of murder. A large kitchen knife was found inside the motel room which was purchased the day before.
It appeared the boy had been dead for several hours before his mother called 911.
“The life of a child should not hang in the balance between two parents whose anger for each other outweighs their love for their child,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Anger makes you forget who you love and what you are responsible for doing. The safest place for a child should be in their parents’ arms. Instead of wrapping her arms around their son in love, she slit his throat and in the cruelest twist of fate removed him from the very world she brought him into.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Harris Siddiq of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Homicide
Saritha Ramaraju
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
