Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
Author
Chase Healy
Published
September 24, 2025
Home
Press
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 18, 2025
CONTACT:
(916) 492-3566 main
Michael Soller: (916) 661-0556 cell
Gabriel Sanchez: (213) 418-5338 cell
MEDIA E-MAIL INQUIRIES:
cdipress@insurance.ca.gov
Irvine couple charged with multiple felony counts of medical insurance fraud, identity theft, and conspiracy
IRVINE, Calif.
– Rebecca Juarez, 39, and Juan Pablo Rodriguez, 31, both of Irvine were arrested on two counts of conspiracy, 21 counts of medical insurance fraud, and 21 counts of identity fraud for allegedly running an insurance fraud scheme where the couple stole more than 21 patients’ identities and submitted false insurance claims.
Investigators with the California Department of Insurance began an investigation after several Orange County residents reported the unauthorized use of their personal information to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department when they noted charges on their explanation of benefits provided by their health insurers for medical testing and treatment they never received.
The investigation revealed that Juarez, on behalf of Rodriguez, unlawfully accessed the computerized medical records system of a Mission Viejo medical practice where she worked. Juarez allegedly stole the personally identifying information of over 21 patients, which she then shared with Rodriguez who had access to a San Jose medical practice’s billing system. Rodriguez created false medical records for medical testing including COVID tests that were never performed. Rodriguez submitted those records through the San Jose medical practice’s insurance billing system resulting in the submission of fraudulent insurance claims.
Investigators determined that the unauthorized billing charges were submitted to various medical insurers between August and November 2023. The total estimated intended loss to the insurance companies exceeded $10,000.
On September 16, 2025, both Rodriguez and Juarez were arraigned on a criminal complaint filed in the Orange County Superior Court, and granted conditional releases. The couple are due back in court December 3, 2025. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
California Department of Insurance
Insurance Fraud
Juan Pablo Rodriguez
Rebecca Juarez
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Westminster Police Officer Caught Drinking and Dancing at Stagecoach Music Festival while Claiming a Head Injury Prevented her from Working Charged with 15 Felonies for Committing Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fraud, Stealing More than $600,000 from Taxpayers
Press
Man Banned for Life from California’s Workers’ Compensation System for Past Felony Fraud Convictions Charged in Extensive Workers’ Compensation Fraud Scheme with San Diego Neurosurgeon, Two Others for Billing Nearly $100  Million in Fraudulent Fees
Press
Married Former Tustin Police Officers Charged With Workers’ Compensation Fraud; Couple Collected a Total of $188,471.43 while Claiming to be Disabled
