GANG MEMBER SENTENCED TO DEATH FOR KILLING FAMILY BUSINESS MAN IN MURDER-FOR-HIRE CONSPIRACY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
GANG MEMBER SENTENCED TO DEATH FOR KILLING FAMILY BUSINESS MAN IN MURDER-FOR-HIRE CONSPIRACY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 11, 2008
Home
Press
GANG MEMBER SENTENCED TO DEATH FOR KILLING FAMILY BUSINESS MAN IN MURDER-FOR-HIRE CONSPIRACY
For Immediate Release
Case # 02NF3143
July 11, 2008
Susan Kang Schroeder
Public Affairs Counsel
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
GANG MEMBER SENTENCED TO DEATH FOR
KILLING FAMILY BUSINESS MAN IN
MURDER-FOR-HIRE CONSPIRACY
SANTA ANA – A gang member was sentenced today to receive the death penalty for the special circumstances murder of a family business man after recruiting three lower level gang members to help him in a murder-for-hire conspiracy. Anthony Navarro, 41, Canyon Country, was found guilty on
Oct. 18, 2007, of one felony count of murder with allegations for committing murder during the commission of another felony and murder committed to benefit a criminal street gang. He was also convicted of one felony count of conspiracy to commit a crime and one felony count of street terrorism. The sentencing enhancement for murder committed by gang members with a firearm was found true. A jury recommended on November 15, 2007 that Navarro be sentenced to death during the penalty phase of the murder trial.
The murder
On Oct. 2, 2002, 44-year-old David Montemayor was kidnapped by three men at his family-run business in Rancho Dominguez. The three accused kidnappers, Gerardo Lopez, 23, Pacoima, Armando Macias, 32, Lancaster, and Alberto Martinez, 30, Castaic, were members of a San Fernando Valley gang and had been recruited by a higher level gang member, Navarro, to kidnap and murder the victim in a murder-for-hire plot. The three men are accused of driving Montemayor, a married father of three, toward his home in Buena Park, where they had been told the victim kept thousands of dollars in cash.
Approximately one mile from the residence, the victim was able to escape from the car and run away from his attackers. Macias and Lopez are accused of firing their weapons at the fleeing victim, executing him by shooting him in the head.
The defendants are accused of fleeing the scene and becoming involved in a televised police chase during rush hour. Police eventually stopped the vehicle and Lopez, Macias, and Martinez were taken into custody.
The victim’s sister, Defendant Deborah Perna, 51, Anaheim, was later charged with hiring the gang members to murder her brother. Perna believed her brother was stealing from the family business, where she worked as the office manager, and wanted to get rid of him. She was also jealous after learning that their father intended to pass control of the family company to the victim. Perna asked her co-worker, defendant Edelmira Corona, 31, Pico Rivera, to help her arrange the murder by asking Corona’s friend Navarro to kill Motemayor. Navarro recruited lower-level gang members Lopez, Macias, and Martinez to carry out the kidnapping and murder.
Co-defendants
Defendant Perna was convicted Oct. 28, 2005, of murder with the
special circumstances of committing the murder in the course of attempted robbery and kidnapping and
was sentenced Feb. 16, 2006, to life without the possibility of parole.
Defendant Lopez was convicted Dec. 14, 2005, of murder with the
special circumstances of committing the murder in the course of attempted robbery and kidnapping
. He was sentenced June 2, 2006, to life without the possibility of parole.
Defendant Corona pleaded guilty to manslaughter on March 24, 2004. She faces a maximum of 22 years in prison and is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 12, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. in Department N-3, North Justice Center, Fullerton.
Defendants Macias and Martinez are charged with one felony count of special circumstances murder with an allegation for murder for financial gain.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
