Registered Nurse Pleads Not Guilty to Murdering Man Who Asked Her to Help Him Die Following Break-up - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Registered Nurse Pleads Not Guilty to Murdering Man Who Asked Her to Help Him Die Following Break-up
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 28, 2019
Home
Press
Registered Nurse Pleads Not Guilty to Murdering Man Who Asked Her to Help Him Die Following Break-up
Case # 19HF1412
Registered Nurse Pleads Not Guilty to Murdering Man Who Asked Her to Help Him Die Following Break-up
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A registered nurse pleaded not guilty today to murdering a friend by injecting him with drugs after he asked her to help him die following a break-up.
Kristie Jane Koepplin, 58, of Peoria, Arizona, was arrested in Maricopa County, Arizona on October 15, 2019. She has been charged with one felony count of murder.
She faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life if convicted. Koepplin posted $1 million bail today and was released from custody.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department launched an investigation into the death of Matthew Peter Sokalski after his body was found inside a room of a Mission Viejo hotel by hotel staff on April 6, 2018.
“California’s right to die law strictly governs the conditions under which terminally ill adult patients with the capacity to make medical decisions can be prescribed an aid-in-dying medication,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “That was not the case here. It is beyond disturbing that someone who is trained as a nurse to aid the sick and the dying would twist their duty to willingly end the life of another human being.”
Koepplin is scheduled to return to court for a pre-trial hearing on January 7, 2020 in H1 at 8:30 a.m.
Tagged with:
aid-in-dying
Kristie Jane Koepplin
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
