18-Year-Old Unlicensed Driver Charged With Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 15-Year-Old Girl During High-Speed Pursuit from Orange to Long Beach in Stolen Car - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
18-Year-Old Unlicensed Driver Charged With Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 15-Year-Old Girl During High-Speed Pursuit from Orange to Long Beach in Stolen Car
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
April 25, 2024
Home
Press
18-Year-Old Unlicensed Driver Charged With Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 15-Year-Old Girl During High-Speed Pursuit from Orange to Long Beach in Stolen Car
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 25, 2024
Case #: 24CF1056
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
18-Year-Old Unlicensed Driver Charged With Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing
15-Year-Old Girl During High-Speed Pursuit from Orange to Long Beach in Stolen Car
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An 18-year-old unlicensed driver was charged today with vehicular manslaughter for killing a 15-year-old girl during a high-speed pursuit from Orange into Long Beach when the stolen car he was driving collided with another vehicle after he ran a red light.
Izaiah Joseph Miranda, 18, of Santa Ana, was charged with one felony count of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence, one felony count of hit and run with permanent injury or death, one felony count of evading while driving recklessly causing death, one felony count of child abuse and endangerment and one misdemeanor count of hit and run with property damage. He was also charged with one felony enhancement of fleeing the scene after committing vehicular manslaughter.
Miranda faces a maximum sentence of 12 years and four months in state prison if convicted of all counts.
On March 8, 2024, Orange police officers responded to a call of a stolen vehicle and found three people inside the stolen car, including two teenage residents of Orangewood Children’s Home.
Two of the teenagers complied with police orders to exit the stolen vehicle, including the front passenger who was arrested, but a 15-year-old girl who had been riding in the back of the car suddenly jumped into the front seat. Miranda is accused of speeding away, reaching speeds of more than 120 miles per hour on the 22 Freeway as he drove from Orange into Long Beach in an attempt to outrun the police.
He is accused of running a red light at an intersection in Long Beach when the vehicle was struck by another car, severely injuring his 15-year-old passenger. Miranda is accused of running from the collision, leaving the injured girl in the passenger seat of the stolen car. The girl, later identified as Denisse Pilego Roman, died several days later.
Miranda is accused of leading Orange police on a chase that reached speeds of 90 mph. He is accused of running a red light at an intersection in Long Beach when the vehicle was struck by another car. Miranda fled on foot. The girl suffered major injuries and died several days later.
“A 15-year-old girl is dead because she decided to get back in a stolen vehicle with a driver who tried to outrun the police at speeds topping 120 miles per hour,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This car thief not only killed a 15-year-old girl, he endangered the lives of the law enforcement officers pursing him and every other driver on the road who had no idea they were in the middle of a high-speed police pursuit.”
A criminal complaint sets forth criminal accusations against a defendant who is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Izaiah Joseph Miranda
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 3 =
