Michigan Man Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 70-year-old Driver in Wrong Way Crash - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Michigan Man Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 70-year-old Driver in Wrong Way Crash
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 28, 2020
Home
Press
Michigan Man Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter for Killing 70-year-old Driver in Wrong Way Crash
Case # 20WF1696
District Attorney Todd Spitzer Declares Orange County is Suffering from Drugged and Impaired Driving Crisis; Prosecutors are Working with Law Enforcement Partners, Community Stakeholders to Adopt Urgent and Immediate Measures to Address Disturbing Trend
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 21-year-old Michigan man has been charged with vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence while intoxicated for killing a 70-year-old driver in a wrong way crash in Stanton.
Christian Alejandro Vasquez has been charged with one felony count of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence while intoxicated, one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing bodily injury, one felony count of driving under the influence with a Blood Alcohol Count of .08% or more causing injury, and one misdemeanor of driving without a valid driver’s license. He is also charged with one felony enhancement of inflicting great bodily injury.
He faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in state prison if convicted of all charges.
On August 16, 2020, Vasquez is accused of driving the wrong way on Beach Boulevard in the city of Stanton without his headlights on and crashing into another vehicle head on. The victim, a 70-year-old man, is seriously injured and rushed to the hospital.
The victim died of his injuries five days later.
Over the last month the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has filed numerous cases involving fatal DUI crashes. District Attorney Spitzer has declared Orange County is facing a serious crisis that has resulted in the senseless deaths of so many innocent people. In response, District Attorney Spitzer is convening a meeting next week with local law enforcement leaders, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), the state Office of Traffic Safety, and statewide trainers to address what immediate and urgent measures can be taken to stop this disturbing trend and save additional lives.
“Driving on Orange County roads should not equate to a death sentence because a stranger makes the selfish decision to get behind the wheel after drinking or doing drugs,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Our county is suffering a drugged and drunk driving crisis and enough is enough. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will not tolerate drugged and drunk driving. We are working with our law enforcement partners and other community stakeholders to do whatever we can to put an immediate stop to these senseless deaths that are devastating our community.”
Deputy District Attorney Avery Harrison of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Christian Alejandro Vasquez
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Vehicular Manslaughter
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
