Gang Member Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Man with Ties to Rival Gang - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Gang Member Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Man with Ties to Rival Gang
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 10, 2020
Home
Press
Gang Member Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Man with Ties to Rival Gang
Case #17NF2318
Gang Member Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Man with Ties to Rival Gang
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Fullerton gang member was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole today in the 2017 shooting death of a man with ties to a rival gang in Anaheim. He was also sentenced to an additional 25 years to life for the personal discharge of a firearm.
Osiris Lenin Garfias Pedraza, 23, of Fullerton, was convicted in November 2019 of one felony count of first-degree murder, one felony count of the personal discharge of a firearm causing death, and one felony count of active participation in a criminal street gang in connection with the murder of Jonathan Hernandez, 22, of Anaheim on July 5, 2017. The jury also found the enhancement of special circumstances to be true.
Garfias Pedraza was in one of three cars that went into rival gang territory in Anaheim on July 5, 2017. Hernandez, who was on the street near Balsam Avenue and Curtis Court, traded insults with the rival gang members as they drove through the neighborhood.
The three cars left the neighborhood, but Garfias Pedraza went back and shot Hernandez to death. Anaheim police were called to the area of Balsam Avenue and Curtis Court at approximately 2:50 a.m. with reports of shots fired and a man down. Officers found Hernandez shot multiple times lying in the street next to a bicycle. He was later pronounced dead at UCI Medical Center.
“Gangs terrorize our communities and unnecessarily cost lives,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Sentencing gang members to life in prison without the possibility of parole sends a very strong message that Orange County is not going to tolerate violence on our streets. The District Attorney’s Gang Reduction and Intervention Partnership is in our schools and our communities every day to prevent our children from joining gangs and instead offer them a view of the world that shows promise and positive opportunities.”
Deputy District Attorney Anna McIntire of the Gang Unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Gang
Gang Shooting
Murder
Osiris Lenin Garfias Pedraza
personal discharge of a firearm
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine Attorney Convicted of Killing Semi-Truck Driver While Driving Intoxicated in Fiery 2019 Freeway Crash
Press
Two MS-13 Gang Members Convicted of Murder in Stabbing at Lake Forest Hot Tub Left Victim Nearly Decapitated, Girlfriend Injured
Press
Third-Striker, Twice Convicted Rapist who was on GPS Monitoring When He Tried to Shoot Three People to Death Sentenced to 100-years-to-life
