Man Charged with Additional Hate Crime for Violating Civil Rights of Japanese-American Olympian in Verbal Attack - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Charged with Additional Hate Crime for Violating Civil Rights of Japanese-American Olympian in Verbal Attack
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 24, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Additional Hate Crime for Violating Civil Rights of Japanese-American Olympian in Verbal Attack
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 24, 2021
Case # 21CF1091
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Defendant has already been charged with hate crimes
for punching an elderly Asian couple in the head
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 26-year-old man is facing an additional hate crime charge in connection with an anti-Asian verbal attack on a Japanese-American Olympian in a park in Orange. The same man is already facing multiple hate crime charges for punching an elderly Asian couple in the face while they took a walk in the same park.
Michael Orlando Vivona, 26, of Orange, was charged today with one misdemeanor count of violation of civil rights for verbally harassing an Asian woman as she talked on the phone in Grijalva Park in Orange on April 1, 2021. Vivona is accused of aggressively yelling at the woman, threatening her, and spitting in her direction.
Seventeen days later, on Sunday, April 18, 2021, around 7:40 p.m. a 78- and 79-year-old Korean couple were taking their nightly walk at Grijalva Park in Orange when Vivona is accused of running up to them and punching the husband in the face, causing him to fall. As the couple attempted to find help, Vivona is accused of punching the wife in the head, causing her to fall.
Bystanders intervened and Vivona was arrested by the Orange Police Department. Vivona later made statements to police disparaging Asians.
Vivona was charged in April with two felony counts of elder abuse, two felony counts of battery – hate crime causing injury, and two felony hate crime enhancements. He now faces a maximum sentence of nine years in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts. Vivona is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $65,000 bail.
“Anti-Asian hate incidents in Orange County are up 1800% over last year because of a national backlash against Asians during the pandemic. I will not tolerate and will punish all criminal haters. At every turn, I have encouraged more people to come forward to report hate crimes.  Finally, they can have confidence that Orange County law enforcement and prosecutors are properly trained and will investigate and prosecute haters to the fullest extent of the law,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, one of Orange County’s outspoken leaders against hate. “If you witness a hate crime or you are the victim of a hate crime, report it to law enforcement. The Orange County District Attorney’s Hate Crime Unit will prosecute it when we can meet our legal standards for prosecution.”
Deputy District Attorney David McMurrin of the Hate Crimes Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Battery
Elder Abuse
Hate Crime
Michael Orlando Vivona
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
