Media Advisory - OCDA to Escort Veterans to Final Resting Place - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Media Advisory – OCDA to Escort Veterans to Final Resting Place
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 3, 2017
Home
Press
Media Advisory – OCDA to Escort Veterans to Final Resting Place
Date: April 3, 2017
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO: Orange County District Attorney (OCDA)/Public Administrator (PA) Tony Rackauckas
WHAT: Will honorably transport the ashes of eight Orange County veterans’ remains and escort a ninth to their final resting place at the Riverside National Cemetery tomorrow morning. These veterans were either homeless, or without living family members and passed away in 2017; the Public Administrator is responsible for the final disposition of their remains.
Of the nine, one was a World War II veteran, two were veterans of the Korean War, five were Vietnam veterans, and one was a veteran of the Global War on Terrorism. They are:
Robert Louis Piazza Jr. – United States Army (Army)
Gene Jay Russo – Army
Almon Boyd Smith – Army
Eugene Erickson – United States Marine Corps (Marine Corps)
Kenneth Keck – Marine Corps
Leszek Blazejczyk – United States Navy (Navy)
Edward Fiske Frohwitter – Navy
Richard A. Lee – United States Air Force (Air Force)
Richard Michael McFadden – Air Force
WHEN: Tomorrow, Tuesday, April 4, 2017, the procession will depart the office of the OCDA at approximately 9:30 a.m., final military honors are scheduled to take place at 11:45 a.m. at the Riverside National Cemetery.
The office of the PA has unique powers to secure real and personal property until an eligible administrator is appointed. The Public Administrator protects the assets and manages the affairs of deceased residents of Orange County, who at the time of death left no known heirs, no will, no named executor, or an executor who is ineligible.
Tagged with:
Almon Boyd Smith
Edward Fiske Frohwitter
Eugene Erickson
Gene Jay Russo
Kenneth Keck
Leszek Blazejczyk
Richard A. Lee
Richard Michael McFadden
Robert Louis Piazza Jr.
Veteran
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 5 =
