$3.2 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme Shut Down - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
$3.2 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme Shut Down
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 17, 2020
Home
Press
$3.2 Million Sober Living Home Fraud Scheme Shut Down
Case# 20CF0070, 20CF0069, 20CF0068, 20CF0067, 20CD0066
Five defendants charged with multiple felonies for preying on vulnerable substance abuse patients to bilk insurance company out of millions
SANTA ANA, Calif. — A joint effort by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the California Department of Insurance has shut down an alleged $3.2 million healthcare fraud ring which preyed on vulnerable substance abuse patients in order to bilk an insurance company out of millions.
Steven Lomonaco, 61, of Laguna Beach, Mahyar “Christian” Mohases, 37, of Santa Ana, Robert Williams, 41, of Murrieta, Nicholas Reeves, 42, of Aliso Viejo, and James Frageau, 29, of Temecula have been charged with multiple felony counts including insurance fraud and money laundering in connection with the scheme.
Mohases, Williams, Reeves, and Frageau have each been charged with two counts of committing medical insurance fraud, one count of fraudulent written claim to an insurance company, two counts of money laundering in excess of $150,000, four counts of money laundering, and one enhancement for aggravated white collar crime over $200,000. They each face a maximum sentence of 14 years if convicted on all charges.
Lomonaco has been charged with two counts of committing medical insurance fraud, one count of fraudulent written claim to an insurance company, one count of medical insurance fraud, and one enhancement for aggravated white collar crime over $200,000. He faces a maximum sentence of 8 years 4 months if convicted on all charges.
“Th heartless nature of these crimes are appalling, ”said Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara. “These suspects trafficked vulnerable substance abuse patients to California just to make a quick buck from the insurance company, with no regard for their lives, health or recovery. Thanks to the efforts of Department of Insurance investigators, and our close work with District Attorney Todd Spitzer’s office, there is one less fraud ring preying on unsuspecting patients.”
Mohases, Frageau, Williams and Reeves are accused of finding patients across the country who were seeking help for substance use recovery and flying them to California to enter treatment at Casa Bella International Inc., which was owned and operated by Lomonaco. In order to obtain payment from the insurance company for these patients, Mohases, Frageau, Williams and Reeves directed employees to fill out policies for the patients using false information.
They are accused of lying on the insurance applications, stating that patients lived in California, when in actuality the addresses were for employees or businesses related to the co-conspirators. Lomonaco paid the other co-conspirators upwards of $10,000 per patient who stayed enrolled in treatment for more than 30 days.
“Sober living homes are valuable resources designed to facilitate recovery and healing for patients battling potentially life-threatening addiction issues,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Instead of helping these patients, these individuals preyed on extremely susceptible people and exploited their addictions for profit. Working closely with the California Department of Insurance, we are cracking down on these criminals and their predatory operations in order to protect substance abuse patients from unknowingly being trafficked, as protect their loved ones and insurance companies from these unscrupulous operators.”
In order to pay the insurance premiums, the defendants are accused of developing a massive money laundering scheme in which they filtered money through non-profit, StopB4UStart, by providing “donations” from Mohases, Frageau, Williams and Reeves under their corporation, Nationwide Recovery. These “donations” would be cashed out, and the owner of StopB4UStart would receive cashier’s checks in specified amounts based on the information he received from one of the other co-conspirators. More than 800 checks in total were used to pay the insurance premiums on the fraudulent policies.
Mohases was arrested on January 13, 2020 and arraigned on January 14, 2020, he has pled not guilty.  He is out on $250,000 bail and is scheduled for a pre-trial on February 5, 2020 in Department C-57.
Reeves was arrested on January 14, 2020 and arraigned on January 15, 2020, he has pled not guilty. He is out on $100,000 bail and is scheduled for a pre-trial on January 22, 2020 in Department C-55. A preliminary hearing for this suspect is scheduled for February 13, 2020 in Department C-55.
Frageau appeared in Court on warrant on January 15, 2020, he was arraigned on January 15, 2020. He is out on $250,000 bail and is scheduled for a continued arraignment on February 7, 2020.
Williams turned himself into Huntington Beach Police Department on January 15, 2020. No arraignment date has been scheduled for him yet.
Lomonaco was arrested on January 16, 2020. He is scheduled to be arraigned January 17, 2020.
Deputy District Attorney James Bilek of the Insurance Fraud Unit at The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
fraudulent claim
James Frageau
Mahyar “Christian” Mohases
Medical Insurance Fraud
Nicholas Reeves
Robert Williams
Sober living
Steven Lomonaco
Substance Abuse
White Collar Crime
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Beverly Hills Body Broker Charged with Stealing Nearly $38 Million While Preying on Sober Living Patients Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison
Press
Tustin Podiatrist Convicted and Sentenced to 364 days Jail for Insurance Fraud Defendant was billing insurance companies for appointments and services that were never provided to patients
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Launches County’s First Pre-filing Diversion Pilot Program “FIRST Point” with Law Enforcement, Health Care Partners - Program will focus on connecting low-level offenders with services to address mental health, substance abuse issues to ensure a criminal proceeding does not inhibit future work and education opportunities
