Orange County District Attorney’s Office Provides Ongoing Victim Support to Families Impacted by Mass Shooting in Orange - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Provides Ongoing Victim Support to Families Impacted by Mass Shooting in Orange
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
April 26, 2021
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Provides Ongoing Victim Support to Families Impacted by Mass Shooting in Orange
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 26, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Provides Ongoing Victim Support to Families Impacted by Mass Shooting in Orange
OCDA Issues Statement Correcting Factual Misstatements
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office issued the following statement to correct factual misstatements made over the weekend regarding a mass shooting that left four people dead in the city of Orange, including a 9-year-old boy, on March 31, 2021:
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office continues to provide victim advocacy to support the families whose lives were tragically impacted by the events of March 31, 2021. From the very beginning, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has offered to meet with the families when they are ready to do so.
Two victim advocates were immediately assigned by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office following the shooting to help the victims and their loved ones, providing comfort and answers about the court process, including daily updates if requested by family members, as well as assistance with applying for victim services, including burial expenses.
“Every case – and every victim – is different. They are human beings who are suffering immense grief and loss – and no one is going to tell them how to feel,” said Senior Deputy District Attorney Mena Guirguis of the Homicide Unit who is prosecuting this case. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office treats every victim like they deserve to be treated – as individuals. We make sure they know that we are here to support them every step of the way – and it is up to them – and them alone – how and when they utilize those services.”
Victim support services continue to be available to the families who lost loved ones in the shooting as well as the lone survivor of the March 31 shooting.
“These families have suffered in the most unimaginable way and they should be afforded the common decency to grieve in the way they need to grieve. It is sickening that a politician who is ignorant on the facts and clearly has no regard for the victims – or their feelings – would want to force the complexities of a special circumstances murder cases on families who just laid their loved ones to rest,” said Guirguis. “This case is not about headlines or political soundbites. It is about four people who will never be able to go home again and a mother who faces a long road to recovery while grieving the loss of her 9-year-old son.”
The Orange County District Attorney’s Victim/Witness Assistance Program provides crime victims and witnesses comprehensive services to help navigate the court process while empowering victims of violence.
###
Tagged with:
Mass shooting
Statement
Victim's
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
District Attorney Spitzer Issues Statement Regarding Outside Counsel Investigation
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Releases Statement Criticizing Court Ruling to Reduce County Jail Population by 50%
