REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS - UNITY OUTPATIENT SURGERY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – UNITY OUTPATIENT SURGERY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 16, 2007
Home
Press
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – UNITY OUTPATIENT SURGERY
Remarks by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
Unity
Outpatient
Surgery
Center
Doctors
May 16, 2007
Thank you all for coming.
Please be patient with us today.
We have a lot of information, some of which is complicated.
We have condensed the information as succinctly as possible.
With us today is Deputy Director Kimberly Kirchmeyer from the Medical Board of California and Public Affairs Spokeswoman Holly McDonnell from the Franchise Tax Board.
I wanted to thank the Medical Board of California and the Franchise Tax Board for their assistance in this case.
Ms. Kirchmeyer will be speaking about the licensing status of these doctors.
We are also honored to have Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner here with us today.
Steve came to this office last year while running for Insurance Commissioner and promised to work with us to fight insurance fraud.
He is keeping his word by taking an aggressive leadership role in this battle.
Mr. Poizner founded a highly successful
Silicon Valley
company, SnapTrack, which developed breakthrough technology that allows emergency services to pinpoint cell phone calls and save lives.
In 2001, he was tapped to serve in the
White House Fellowship
program in
Washington
,
DC
, arriving only days before the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In a time of national crisis, Steve’s leadership enabled him to serve his country as
Director of Critical Infrastructure Protection
in the National Security Council.
When Steve returned to
California
, he sought out new ways to give back to his community. Passionate about improving the quality of the state’s public schools,
Steve volunteered to teach
American Government at an inner city high school in east
San Jose
and was selected “Rookie Teacher of the Year.”
Steve is committed to fighting insurance fraud.
He understands the issues and I am proud to have him as a law enforcement partner.
We look forward to hearing from him soon.
We also have with us Senior Assistant District Attorney Joe D’Agastino, Assistant District Attorney Elizabeth Henderson and Deputy District Attorney Rick Welsh.
The rest of the Unity prosecution team is, of course, working hard out in the field this morning.
As you know, three medical doctors were arrested this morning on 47 felony counts each, which can send them to prison for 49 years.
These types of cases take a tremendous amount of resources and work.
The Unity case involves over three terabytes of data, which if printed and stacked up, would be 20 times the height of the
Empire
State
building.
Our office, with significant assistance from the Department of Insurance, the Franchise Tax Board, and California Medical Board, began investigating this case in November 2001.
The first three defendants — Tam Vu Pham, Huong Thien Ngo, and Lan Thi Ngoc Nguyen, the administrators for Unity — were arrested and charged in July of 2004.
From July 2002 to April 2003, Unity fraudulently billed $96 million and collected $17 million from insurance companies.
Unity brought in around 2,000 healthy patients from 32 states. In exchange for money or cosmetic surgery, patient allowed doctors to perform unnecessary surgeries.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
