THREE WHITE SUPREMACISTS MEN SENTENCED TO STATE PRISON FOR HATE CRIME ATTACK OF HISPANIC MAN IN ALLEY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
THREE WHITE SUPREMACISTS MEN SENTENCED TO STATE PRISON FOR HATE CRIME ATTACK OF HISPANIC MAN IN ALLEY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 18, 2009
Home
Press
THREE WHITE SUPREMACISTS MEN SENTENCED TO STATE PRISON FOR HATE CRIME ATTACK OF HISPANIC MAN IN ALLEY
For Immediate Release
Case # 09WF1385
December 18, 2009
Susan Kang Schroeder
Public Affairs Counsel
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
THREE WHITE SUPREMACISTS MEN SENTENCED TO STATE PRISON FOR HATE CRIME ATTACK OF HISPANIC MAN IN ALLEY
*Charges are pending against a female co-defendant in this case
WESTMINSTER – Three white supremacists were convicted today of stabbing and attempting to murder a Hispanic man after driving through his neighborhood and targeting him based on his ethnicity.
A fourth co-defendant still faces charges in this case.
Bret MacDonald Hicks, 30, Riverside, Michael Aaron Powell, 21, Anaheim, and Brian Charles Hanson, 27, Santa Ana, pleaded guilty to a court offer to one felony count each of attempted murder, aggravated assault, hate crime battery causing injury, and admitted to the sentencing enhancement for committing a hate crime in concert with others.
Hicks also admitted to sentencing enhancements for the personal use of a deadly weapon and causing great bodily injury. He has two prior convictions for vehicle theft in 1998 and committing a hate crime in 2005. He was sentenced to a court offer of 10 years in state prison over the objection of the People, who advocated for a sentence of 15 to 17 years in prison based on his prior hate crime conviction.
Powell admitted to an additional sentencing enhancement for crime-bail-crime. The term “crime-bail-crime” denotes that, at the time of the crime, the defendant was out of custody on bail for another pending felony criminal case. Powell was out of custody on an unrelated aggravated assault gang case (Case # 08WF2359) at the time of the hate crime. He was sentenced to a court offer of five years in state prison over the objection of the People, who advocated for 10 years based on the circumstances of this case. The gang case against Powell is scheduled for jury trial Jan. 28, 2010, in Department C-5, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
Hanson has five prior strike convictions for robbery in 1999 and robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, and two attempted robberies in 2000. He was sentenced to a court offer of 11 years and eight months in state prison, over the objection of the People, who advocated for a life sentence based on the defendant’s five prior strike convictions.
Co-defendant Erin Lee Brooks, 25, Costa Mesa, is charged with one felony count each of attempted murder, aggravated assault, and hate crime battery causing injury. She faces a sentencing enhancement for committing a hate crime in concert with others and has a 2005 prior strike conviction for accessory after the fact. If convicted, she faces a maximum sentence of 23 years and eight months in state prison. Brooks is scheduled for a pre-trial hearing on Jan. 7, 2010, in Department W-14, West Justice Center, Westminster.
The defendants have been identified as white supremacists through white supremacist tattoos. At approximately 11:50 p.m. on July 3, 2009, the three male co-defendants drove down a residential alley in a red pick-up truck in a primarily Hispanic neighborhood with the intention of attacking a random Hispanic victim. Brooks is accused of being with the three men. When the defendants observed victim Sergio Hernandez outside of a home speaking with friends, they suddenly stopped the truck. Hicks, Powell, and Hanson got out of the vehicle, ran to the victim, and began to attack him by punching, kicking, and stabbing him.
Tagged with:
Hate Crime
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
