South L.A. Man Arrested on Complaint Alleging Armed Robbery Spree, Including One Incident in Which He Twice Shot Victim - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
South L.A. Man Arrested on Complaint Alleging Armed Robbery Spree, Including One Incident in Which He Twice Shot Victim
Author
Chase Healy
Published
December 5, 2024
Home
Press
South L.A. Man Arrested on Complaint Alleging Armed Robbery Spree, Including One Incident in Which He Twice Shot Victim
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 5, 2024
PRESS RELEASE
Ciaran McEvoy
Public Information Officer
Ciaran.mcevoy@usdoj.gov
(213) 894-4465
South L.A. Man Arrested on Complaint Alleging Armed Robbery Spree, Including One Incident in Which He Twice Shot Victim
SANTA ANA, California –A South Los Angeles man has been arrested on a federal criminal complaint alleging he committed a series of armed robberies in parking lots in Los Angeles and Orange counties, including one incident in which he shot a victim twice outside the South Coast Plaza shopping mall in Costa Mesa, the Justice Department announced today.
Oshae Pollard, 21, of the Manchester Square neighborhood of Los Angeles, is charged with interference with commerce by robbery (Hobbs Act) and use of a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence. He was arrested Wednesday.
Pollard is scheduled to make his initial appearance this afternoon in United States District Court in Santa Ana. “The violence alleged in this complaint shocks the conscience,” said United States Attorney Martin Estrada. “It is essential that we hold perpetrators of violence accountable for victimizing our community. My office –through the Operation Safe Cities initiative –is collaborating with
“The violence alleged in this complaint shocks the conscience,” said United States Attorney Martin Estrada. “It is essential that we hold perpetrators of violence accountable for victimizing our community. My office –through the Operation Safe Cities initiative –is collaborating with local law enforcement and using powerful federal tools to target the worst offenders of violent gun crime.”
According to an affidavit filed with the complaint, from August 25 to September 22, Pollard targeted victims in parking lots in Southern California in a series of crimes –at least three armed robberies and one attempted armed robbery.
The first robbery occurred late at night on August 25, 2024, at the Hustler Casino parking lot in Gardena, where Pollard ran toward the victim and pushed her to the ground. The victim held onto her purse and yelled for help. Pollard began pulling on the victim’s purse and pulled out a black semi-automatic pistol, placed it into the victim’s mouth –breaking her teeth in the process –and said, “If you yell again, I’ll kill you.” A witness began yelling and Pollard grabbed the victim’s purse –stealing between $1,000 and $2,000 –retreated to a car and drove away.
During the early morning of August 26, Pollard and an accomplice robbed a taxi driver sitting inside his cab in the parking lot of a Winchell’s Donut House in Carson, struck the victim in the face, entered his car, and held the victim at gunpoint until he handed them his wallet and Samsung cellphone.
Late night on the same day, Pollard and an accomplice approached two victims standing near their Rolls-Royce and Ferrari vehicles. Pollard pointed a semi-automatic pistol at the victim standing near the Rolls-Royce and demanded all the victim’s cash. The victim handed over a luxury watch, a wallet, and the keys to the Rolls-Royce. When the other victim started the Ferrari and attempted to drive away, Pollard ran to the driver’s door of the Ferrari and fired one round from his pistol into the car, barely missing the victim. The victim drove to a nearby gas station and asked the gas station clerk to call police, who later recovered one 9mm shell casing from the scene. The total value of the items stolen was approximately $44,000.
On September 22, Pollard approached a victim who was entering his car parked in the parking lot of the South Coast Plaza shopping mall in Costa Mesa, and demanded, “Give me the watch. Give me the ring. Give me the car,” and later threatened to shoot the victim, according to the affidavit. When the victim didn’t comply, Pollard shot the victim in the left hand, then pointed his pistol at the victim’s chest and said, “You’re a dead man.”
Pollard then shot the victim in the left thigh as the victim began to remove his watch. The victim then kicked Pollard, who fell to the ground. The victim then kicked Pollard several times, fought with him for up to 15 seconds, then got back into his car and drove away. Pollard ran to a Kia Forte and fled the scene. The victim survived the gunshot wounds. “Reducing violent crime in our community and throughout our country is a priority of the ATF,” said ATF Los Angeles Field Division Special Agent in Charge Christopher Bombardiere. “I could not be more pleased with the outcome of this investigation by the ATF Orange County Violent Crime Task Force. Cases like this highlight the importance of authentic relationships between law enforcement agencies to keep our communities safe. This arrest illustrates the task force’s unrelenting resolve to hold accountable anyone who engages in violent criminal activity.”
“These are crimes of violence that not only terrorize the intended targets, but our community as a whole, making shoppers think twice about whether a trip to the mall will erupt in gunfire,” said Kimberly Edds, Director of Public Affairs for the Orange County District Attorney’s Office. “As a result of the unrelenting pursuit of justice by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, this arrest continues to send a strong message that crime doesn’t pay in Orange County.”
A complaint contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty in court.
If convicted of all charges, Pollard would face a statutory maximum sentence of life in federal prison.
Operation Safe Cities establishes strategic enforcement priorities with an emphasis on prosecuting the most significant drivers of violent crime. Across this region, the most damaging and horrific crimes are committed by a relatively small number of particularly violent individuals. This strategic enforcement approach is expected to increase the number of arrests, prosecutions and convictions of recidivists engaged in the most dangerous conduct. It is designed to improve public safety across the region by targeting crimes involving illicit guns, prohibited persons possessing firearms, or robbery crews that cause havoc and extensive losses to retail establishments.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Orange County Violent Crime Task Force is investigating this case. This task force is comprised of federal and local law enforcement agencies, which include ATF, the Brea Police Department, the Santa Ana Police Department, and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office with the assistance of the Newport Beach Police Department.
Assistant United States Attorneys Jena A. MacCabe and Kevin J. Butler of the Violent and Organized Crime Section are prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Oshae Pollard
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 9 =
