Former CHP Officer Charged with Filing False Time Cards Claiming He Worked Regular Shifts, Overtime He Never Worked - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former CHP Officer Charged with Filing False Time Cards Claiming He Worked Regular Shifts, Overtime He Never Worked
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 22, 2021
Home
Press
Former CHP Officer Charged with Filing False Time Cards Claiming He Worked Regular Shifts, Overtime He Never Worked
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 22, 2021
Case # 21CF2653
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A veteran California Highway Patrol officer has been charged with 27 felonies for stealing more than $4,000 by submitting time cards falsely claiming he worked regular shifts and overtime that he never worked.
Scott Helberg, 47, of Corona, has been charged with 27 felony counts of presenting a false claim and one felony count of grand theft by an employee.
Helberg, who spent 22 years as a California Highway Patrol Officer, resigned June 14, 2021.
Helberg is scheduled to be arraigned on October 22, 2021 in Department C55 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana. He faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
As the Tow Officer for the CHP’s Santa Ana Area Office, Helberg was responsible for coordinating and assigning overtime, did not have to attend roll call briefings, and often worked off-site inspecting tow trucks.
Between July 1 and October 16, 2020, Helberg filed 27 timecards requesting pay for regular hours and overtime shifts that he never worked.
The California Highway Patrol initiated an internal investigation in October 2020 after inconsistencies in Helberg’s work activity failed to match the hours he reported on his time card. As part of the investigation, the CHP discovered that on multiple occasions when he claimed to have been working Helberg was actually at his home in Corona in Riverside County instead of within the jurisdiction of the CHP’s Santa Ana Area Office. The CHP referred the case to the District Attorney’s Office for further investigation and prosecution.
“Stealing precious taxpayer dollars while pretending to protect and serve the residents of Orange County is not only a disservice to the taxpaying public it is a disservice to all of the hardworking men and women of law enforcement who are actually doing the job they are sworn to do,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Thank you to the California Highway Patrol for identifying and thoroughly investigating this theft of taxpayer dollars so that we can hold this individual accountable.”
Deputy District Attorney Nathaniel Barrett of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
False Time Cards
Scott Helberg
Stealing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
