Westminster City Councilmember Charged with Trying to Bribe City Parking Control Officer to Avoid Having Husband’s Jeep Towed - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Westminster City Councilmember Charged with Trying to Bribe City Parking Control Officer to Avoid Having Husband’s Jeep Towed
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
January 23, 2025
Home
Press
Westminster City Councilmember Charged with Trying to Bribe City Parking Control Officer to Avoid Having Husband’s Jeep Towed
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 23, 2025
Case #: 25WM00743
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Westminster City Councilmember Charged with Trying to Bribe City Parking Control Officer to Avoid Having Husband’s Jeep Towed
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Westminster city council member has been charged with one misdemeanor count of bribery of one of the City’s parking control officers in an effort to avoid having her husband’s Jeep towed from a City street.
Amy Phan West, 42, of Westminster, is alleged to have been running a car rental business connected through the Turo application near the area of Dorothy Street and Melanie Lane in the City of Westminster. Over the course of 2023, Westminster parking officials responded to more than 20 calls for service for dirty, unregistered, or abandoned vehicles at the location.
In April 2023, two parking control officers were dispatched to the location in reference to an abandoned Jeep which was left parked on a City street. The Jeep was registered to Phan West’s husband.
After the parking control officers requested a tow truck to tow the Jeep, Phan West is accused of identifying herself and telling the parking control officers not to tow the vehicle and she would move it herself. She is also accused of telling the parking control officers how much she loves the Westminster Police Department, that she is close friends with the Westminster police chief, and that she is in the process of getting raises for police department personnel.
The City Council was engaged in contract negotiations with the Westminster Police Officers’ Association at the time.
Phan West is also accused of showing the parking control officers a Westminster Police Department keychain.
After her statements, the parking officials called to cancel the tow truck and left the abandoned Jeep parked on the street.
Phan West is scheduled to be arraigned on February 24, 2025, at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster.
“The law applies equally to everyone, including elected officials. Holding elective office does not entitle anyone to a separate set of rules and any attempt to engage in corruption, bribery, or any other crime under the shroud of elective office will be thoroughly investigated and any and all crimes that have been committed will be prosecuted by my office to the fullest extent of the law,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Deputy District Attorney Matthew Bradbury of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Amy Phan West
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
