Irvine Man Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges, Criminal Threats Against Members of Three Orange County Houses of Worship - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Irvine Man Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges, Criminal Threats Against Members of Three Orange County Houses of Worship
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 31, 2019
Home
Press
Irvine Man Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges, Criminal Threats Against Members of Three Orange County Houses of Worship
Case # 18F00571
28-year-old visited churches, synagogues while researching how to get away with murder
Nicholas Wesley Rose
SANTA ANA, Calif. –A 28-year-old Irvine man pled guilty today to one felony count of carrying a loaded firearm that was not registered to him and three misdemeanor counts of violation of civil rights in connection with threats made to three houses of worship in Orange County because of their connection to the Jewish community.
Rose had conducted extensive internet searches on the houses of worship and visited them between December 2017 and April 2018.
“There is no place for hate,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “He is a danger to society and every resident of Orange County should be aware of the threat he poses.”
Rose was sentenced to 825 days in the Orange County Jail, one year in a residential mental health treatment program, and five years formal probation with GPS monitoring. He is also required to stay 500 yards away from his victims and cooperate with the Orange County Probation Department regarding additional mental health treatment.
Rose’s parents contacted the Orange Police Department in April 2018 concerned about their son’s anti-Semitic rhetoric, including a statement that he intended to “get a gun and kill some Jews.” During a search of Rose’s Irvine apartment, police found anti-Jewish literature and a journal full of white supremacist and anti-Jewish writings by Rose, including a list of steps titled “Killing my first Jew” and a “Kill List.” The search also revealed note cards referencing two of the churches he visited, including a list of negative characteristics of each church, specifically in regards to their sympathies to Jewish people.
Investigators also discovered that Rose had conducted extensive internet searches of white supremacy ideology, anti-Semitism and the effective range of a silenced .22 long range rifle.
Police discovered hundreds of rounds of .22 caliber ammunition, a shovel, and a sleeping bag in Rose’s car.
Sr. Deputy District Attorney Brett Brian of the Special Prosecutions Unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Anti Jewish
Nicholas Wesley Rose
Threats
Violation of Civil Rights
Weapons
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime, Violation of Civil Rights for Attacking Newport Beach 7-Eleven Owner with Bottle
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime for Throwing Rocks at an Asian Woman, 6-year-old Child
Press
Second-striker Charged with Hate Crime after Hurling Racial Epithet, Using Hatchet to Break Out Car Window
