LAPD Officer Charged with Stealing Truck from Car Dealer in Orange - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
LAPD Officer Charged with Stealing Truck from Car Dealer in Orange
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 8, 2021
Home
Press
LAPD Officer Charged with Stealing Truck from Car Dealer in Orange
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 8, 2021
Case# 21CF0349
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
LAPD Officer Charged with
Stealing Truck from Car Dealer in Orange
Officer accused of calling his own department’s Vehicle Warrant Unit to
remove truck from list of stolen vehicles, driving stolen truck to work
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Los Angeles Police Department officer has been charged with three felonies and three misdemeanors for stealing a truck from a car dealership in Orange and then calling his own department’s Vehicle Warrant Unit to change the stolen truck’s status from stolen to recovered. He is also charged with repeatedly accessing a confidential law enforcement database to check on the vehicle’s status while driving the stolen vehicle for more than a year, including to work as a police officer.
Matthew Calleros, 45, of Whittier, pleaded not guilty today to one felony count of the unlawful taking of a vehicle, one felony count of forging of a license plate, and one felony count of false personation. Calleros has also been charged with three misdemeanor counts of the unauthorized disclosure of information from Department of Motor Vehicle records.
He faces a maximum sentence of four years and four months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Calleros was released on his own recognizance. He is scheduled to be back in court on April 15, 2021.
On October 25, 2019, Calleros is accused of going to B & J Car Company in Orange and driving off in a 2015 Chevrolet Silverado after he asked a car salesman to pull the CarFax on the vehicle.
Calleros is then accused of using another LAPD officer’s identification to call into the LAPD’s Vehicle Warrant Unit to report the stolen truck had been recovered.
Calleros is also accused of accessing the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS) to run multiple checks on the vehicle’s license plate number and different license plate number belonging to a 2014 model Chevy Silverado which he put on the stolen vehicle.
Following a nearly year-long investigation by the LAPD and the Orange Police Department, Calleros was arrested on November 9, 2020 at the LAPD’s Hollenbeck Division. The stolen truck was parked in the employee parking lot.
“The badge is pinned over the heart of every law enforcement officer for a reason,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is a symbol of public faith in the job every officer has sworn to do and the laws they are sworn to uphold. When law enforcement officers use their training and law enforcement resources to victimize the very people they are sworn to protect, it tarnishes the badge of every law enforcement officer. Every time an officer’s actions erodes the public trust, it undermines the rule of law.”
Deputy District Attorney Frank Acosta of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Matthew Calleros
unlawful taking of a vehicle False Personation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 3 =
