Orange County District Attorney’s Office Issues Statement on People v. Robicheaux and Riley - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Issues Statement on People v. Robicheaux and Riley
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 7, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Issues Statement on People v. Robicheaux and Riley
Case # 18HF1291
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Issues Statement on People v. Robicheaux and Riley
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office issued the following statement on People vs. Robicheaux and Riley:
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office welcomes the opportunity to provide Judge Jones with a comprehensive briefing on all of the evidence of the case based on our appearance in court today.
“Asking the Court to agree to a motion to dismiss on already filed serious criminal charges is a great and important burden. Once filed, this is the Court’s decision based on our request. I am more than pleased to share the evaluation of the entire case so that Judge Jones can do justice in his decision,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.  “Judge Jones has been involved in this case from its inception and it is completely reasonable that he would want a thorough understanding of the facts.”
A three month de novo review by two veteran sexual assault prosecutors reviewed every single piece of evidence and determined that there is insufficient evidence to proceed.
The entire De Novo review team with 175 years of law practice experience is fully prepared to present our full case, under seal, to the Court.
Tagged with:
Anasthesia
Assault
Assault Weapon
Cerissa Riley
Grant Robicheaux
Kidnapping
Media statement
Rape
Rape by use of Drugs
Sexual Assault
Sexual Offence
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
