LAPD Sergeant Charged with Hitting, Killing Pedestrian in Drunk Driving Collision, Leaving Man to Die in Street - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
LAPD Sergeant Charged with Hitting, Killing Pedestrian in Drunk Driving Collision, Leaving Man to Die in Street
Author
Chase Healy
Published
June 18, 2025
Home
Press
LAPD Sergeant Charged with Hitting, Killing Pedestrian in Drunk Driving Collision, Leaving Man to Die in Street
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 18, 2025
Case # 25CF2440
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
LAPD Sergeant Charged with Hitting, Killing Pedestrian in
Drunk Driving Collision, Leaving Man to Die in Street
Santa Ana – A Los Angeles Police Department sergeant has been charged with hitting a 19-year-old pedestrian on a Tustin street in an early morning drunk driving crash before driving to his girlfriend’s home, leaving the man to die in the street.
Carlos Gonzalo Coronel, 40, of Buena Park, has been charged with one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing great bodily injury and one felony count of hit and run with permanent injury or death. He has also been charged with one felony enhancement of great bodily injury.
He faces a maximum sentence of 6 years 8 months state prison if convicted on all counts.
Coronel is scheduled to be arraigned on June 27, 2025, at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C57.
In the early morning hours of February 1, 2025, Coronel is accused of driving his black Chevy Silverado pickup truck after a night of drinking with his brother-in-law. At about 3:41 a.m., Coronel is accused of hitting and killing Imanol Salvador Gonzalez who was walking in the street near the intersection of Nisson Road and Del Amo Avenue in the City of Tustin.
Coronel, who was on his way to his girlfriend’s home, is accused of not stopping his truck to see what he hit. He did not call 911. Two people who were on their way home from work that morning found Gonzalez’ body lying in the middle of Nisson Road a few minutes later and called police.
Despite significant front-end damage to his truck, Coronel never called 911. When his girlfriend drove Coronel back to his Buena Park home, Coronel is also accused of instructing his girlfriend to turn around to avoid Nisson Road, the location where Gonzalez had been hit. In the hours after Gonzalez was killed, Coronel is also accused of searching the Internet to see if there had been a fatal hit and run in Tustin.
Coronel is also accused of driving by the Tustin Police Department crime scene where officers were investigating Gonzalez’ death but not alerting officers to the fact that he had been in a collision at that same intersection.
“Our law enforcement officers are entrusted with the highest level of public trust, and it is unconscionable that an officer who swore an oath to protect and serve would leave a man to die in the street after hitting him while driving under the influence of alcohol,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Imanol was loved by his family, and he did not deserve to have his story end lying in the middle of a dark Tustin street alone while the police officer who hit him drove away because his self-preservation was more important than a human life.”
Deputy District Attorney Austin Neiman of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Carlos Gonzalo Coronel
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
