Juvenile Arrested for Conducting Swatting Attacks Targeting Synagogues and Other Institutions - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Juvenile Arrested for Conducting Swatting Attacks Targeting Synagogues and Other Institutions
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
December 13, 2023
Home
Press
Juvenile Arrested for Conducting Swatting Attacks Targeting Synagogues and Other Institutions
JTTF PRESS RELEASE
For Immediate Distribution:  12/13/23
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Los Angeles Field Office
FBI LA Press Office: 310-996-3343
Juvenile Arrested for Conducting Swatting Attacks Targeting Synagogues and Other Institutions
West Covina – A juvenile suspect who was a member of an online swatting ring was arrested Tuesday morning, it was announced today by members of the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force located in the FBI’s West Covina Resident Agency and leaders with the Orange County Sheriff’s Department; the Tustin Police Department; the Fullerton Police Department; and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office.
A series of hoax swatting threats had been made over the summer targeting numerous religious, educational, and public institutions in the United States, to include Jewish synagogues and African American churches.  The group suspected of perpetrating the hoaxes was known to have called in bomb threats and swatting attempts at Jewish facilities, including at least 25 synagogues in 13 states between July 2023 and August 2023.
Swatting is a term used to describe criminal activity by an individual (or group) who knowingly provides false information to police suggesting that a threat exists at a particular location so that police respond with tactical units, or what’s commonly known as a S.W.A.T. Team, (Special Weapons and Tactics).
The Joint Terrorism Task Force, in concert with law enforcement in Southern California and New York, as well as community organizations, compiled information that led to the identity of the individual believed to have created the server that hosted the suspected swatting network.  The server that hosted that network, which has since been taken offline, included members who espoused extremist views, to include the glorification of highly publicized mass killers.
The suspect was arrested on Tuesday morning by members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force and will be charged at the state level by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office with two of the local swatting hoaxes.  The local swatting attempts occurred at synagogues in Tustin and in Fullerton. The suspect’s name will not be released because the individual is a minor.
The false swatting threats made in this case drained law enforcement resources and caused a negative financial impact on local communities.  Evidence has shown that making false threats can cause significant distress to victims and can cause physical injury to first responders or other victims.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
JTTF
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 8 =
