Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Strangling Woman to Death after Kidnapping her in Santa Ana - Man’s brother is charged with setting the woman’s body on fire after dumping her in Irvine; authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying victim - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Strangling Woman to Death after Kidnapping her in Santa Ana – Man’s brother is charged with setting the woman’s body on fire after dumping her in Irvine; authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying victim
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
November 15, 2022
Home
Press
Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Strangling Woman to Death after Kidnapping her in Santa Ana – Man’s brother is charged with setting the woman’s body on fire after dumping her in Irvine; authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying victim
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 15, 2022
Case #: 10HF1962
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Convicted of First-Degree Murder for Strangling Woman to Death after Kidnapping her in Santa Ana
Man’s brother is charged with setting the woman’s body on fire after dumping her in Irvine; authorities are asking for public’s help in identifying victim
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 36-year-old man was convicted today of strangling a woman he kidnapped in Santa Ana in 2009. The defendant’s brother is still facing criminal charges for pulling the woman’s body out of the van they were driving, dumping her in an Irvine business complex, and setting her body on fire.
Authorities have not yet been able to identify the victim.  Anyone with information about the victim is asked to call Irvine Police Detective John Sanders at 949-724-7233.
Zenaido Valdivia-Guzman, 36, was convicted by a jury of one felony count of first degree murder and the special circumstance of murder in the commission of a kidnapping. He faces a maximum sentence of life without the possibility parole. He is scheduled to be sentenced on December 15, 2022 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana in Department C35.
On September 5, 2009, Zenaido Valdivia-Guzman (Zenaido) and his brother, Gabino Valdivia-Guzman (Gabino), were driving through the city of Santa Ana in a van. Near the intersection of Harbor Boulevard and First Street, they came across a woman who Gabino, who was driving the van, convinced to get into the vehicle. Once the woman realized Zenaido was also in the vehicle she started screaming and tried to get away.
Zenaido strangled the woman to death before Gambino drove the van to Irvine where Gambino is accused of pulling the woman’s body out of the van and setting it on fire.
“This woman did not deserve to have her life ended in such a horrific way by a complete stranger,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We may not know yet who this woman was, but we will never stop trying to identify her and we will never stop pursuing justice for her and everyone who loved her.”
Gambino Valdivia-Guzman is also charged with one felony count of murder and the special circumstance of murder in the commission of a kidnapping. He has pleaded not guilty.
Deputy District Attorney Robbie Goodkin of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Gabino Valdivia-Guzman
Zenaido Valdivia-Guzman
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
