OCDA ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF CHAPLAIN JUDY LAMBORN TO SUPPORT OCDA STAFF - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
OCDA ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF CHAPLAIN JUDY LAMBORN TO SUPPORT OCDA STAFF
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 13, 2018
Home
Press
OCDA ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF CHAPLAIN JUDY LAMBORN TO SUPPORT OCDA STAFF
Date: July 13, 2018
OCDA ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF CHAPLAIN JUDY LAMBORN TO SUPPORT OCDA STAFF
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA) announced the appointment of Judy Lamborn as a chaplain to support OCDA staff.
Lamborn currently serves as Chief Operations Officer for Open Gate International, a nonprofit organization specializing in reintegrating human trafficking survivors and other vulnerable populations by providing life skills training and career development.
“I am honored to serve the brave men and women of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office as a member of the chaplain corps and look forward to coming alongside them to assist in any way I can,” stated Lamborn.
In March, District Attorney Rackauckas announced the chaplaincy program and appointed Lance Emma as the Head Chaplain of the OCDA. Emma has served in full-time ministry in churches and non-profit organizations since 1989. He became an ordained minister in 2005 while working at Horizon Christian Fellowship in San Diego, California.
“Judy brings a high level of experience in the areas of support, care, and education and will be a valuable asset to the chaplain corps in service to the men and women of the OCDA,” Emma remarked.
About OCDA’s Chaplaincy Program
Case studies of major incidents involving numerous injuries or fatalities reveal significant numbers of emergency personnel experience some form of stress-related symptoms following the incident. Many of these symptoms are transitory and most personnel have no long-term detrimental effects. These studies, however, also reveal some personnel do experience some form of long-term detrimental effects resulting from exposure to such incidents. Some of these effects are delayed, surfacing later after a period of no apparent symptoms. Without professional intervention, some may experience declining work performance and deterioration of family relationships, as well as increased health problems. The purpose of a chaplain’s services is two-fold:
To provide a chaplain service for the OCDA Chaplaincy in coordination with existing Employee Assistance Program.
To provide care for community members who have experienced a community trauma in association with the comprehensive OCDA services.
The goal of a chaplain service for OCDA employees is to assist in helping individuals cope with the inordinate level of stress they encounter while serving the County’s trauma needs. Traumatic and stressful events/incidents can produce physical and emotional challenges, which adversely affect one’s effectiveness on the job as well as at home.
With this goal in mind, OCDA Chaplain(s) provides critical incident stress management support in relation to vocational stress. The program will not to be used as a forum for proselytizing (recruitment to a new faith) and is not meant to replace an individual’s clergy and/or other counseling programs available through the OCDA/County. The chaplain service does not exist to compete with, but rather to complement
,
existing resources. In addition, all chaplain services are rendered free of charge as the OCDA Chaplain(s) serve the department as volunteers.
The Chaplain is one of the most vital positions within law enforcement agencies across the county. It is a position that is demanding, confidential, trusting, and essential for the lives of law enforcement personnel and their families. The OCDA Chaplaincy Program will serve as an invaluable resource and support system for all OCDA staff, who dedicate themselves each day to enhancing public safety through the vigorous enforcement of criminal and civil laws in a just, honest, and ethical manner.
Tagged with:
Chaplain
Media Advisory
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
