Costa Mesa Bar Owner Charged with Illegally Operating During COVID-19 Pandemic - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Costa Mesa Bar Owner Charged with Illegally Operating During COVID-19 Pandemic
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 31, 2020
Home
Press
Costa Mesa Bar Owner Charged with Illegally Operating During COVID-19 Pandemic
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 31, 2020
Case #: 20WM15467
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Costa Mesa Bar Owner Charged with
Illegally Operating During COVID-19 Pandemic
Bar owner repeatedly refused to adhere to non-essential business curfew order or enforce other mitigating measures; bar manager charged with resisting a police officer
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The owner of a Costa Mesa bar has been charged with illegally operating during the COVID-19 pandemic despite repeated attempts by law enforcement and the city Code Enforcement officers to educate the bar owner on the law and seek voluntarily compliance with the non-essential business curfew order. The manager of the bar has been charged with resisting a police officer when she attempted to prevent him from entering the bar.
Roland Michael Barrera, the owner of the Westend Bar, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of violating and neglecting to obey a lawful order and regulation. Luisza Giulietta Mauro, who manages the bar, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of resisting a police officer.
Barrera, 47, of Costa Mesa, and Mauro, 26, of Huntington Beach, both face a maximum sentence of one year in jail if convicted. They are scheduled to be arraigned at the West Justice Center on June 22, 2021. The District Attorney’s Office is hopeful that there will be no new violations and that the case can be resolved through additional education courses through the California Department of Alcohol Beverage Control(ABC) and other educational efforts instead of jail time.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has supported an education and outreach philosophy in regards to the health orders and has thus far, declined to file charges in nearly two dozen cases presented to the OCDA from around the county against business owners accused of operating illegally during the pandemic.
“This pandemic has not only cost millions of lives, it has cost countless business owners their livelihoods as they struggle to survive,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Orange County is home to tens of thousands of businesses who have either ceased operations or have continued to operate while implementing mitigating measures to stop the spread of COVID-19. It is unacceptable for a business to repeatedly flaunt the regulations and continue to operate without even attempting to institute any mitigating measures that are designed to save lives. This is not just any business. This is a business that was provided opportunity after opportunity to take corrective action and it has failed to do so. This blatant disregard of the local and state health orders, is a slap in the face to hardworking business owners who continue to try to the do the right thing during these extremely trying times.”
Costa Mesa police, Code Enforcement officers and agents from the California Department of Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC) have responded to the Westend Bar numerous times since an emergency lockdown order was issued on November 19, 2020 mandating all non-essential businesses close between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. On multiple occasions the Westend Bar continued to operate outside of the mandated closure times, at time hosting 50-70 customers without enforcing social distancing or facial coverings for their employees or customers.
At approximately 11 p.m. on December 12, 2020, Mauro is accused of grabbing a uniformed police officer and physically trying to prevent him from entering the Westend Bar. This establishment, like all bars in the state of California, is regulated through ABC and law enforcement access is a condition of its license as a bar.
Assistant District Attorney Susan Price of the West Justice Center is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Ignoring COVID 19 Rules
Illegally Operating
Luisza Giulietta Mauro
Resisting Arrest
Roland Michael Barrera
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
