22-year-old Charged with Sexually Assaulting 14-year-old Irvine Girl He Met Online - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
22-year-old Charged with Sexually Assaulting 14-year-old Irvine Girl He Met Online
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 20, 2019
Home
Press
22-year-old Charged with Sexually Assaulting 14-year-old Irvine Girl He Met Online
Investigators are asking the public’s help in identifying other potential victims
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 22-year-old man has been charged with sexually assaulting a 14-year-old Irvine girl he met online, and videotaping at least one of the assaults. Investigators are asking for the public’s help in identifying other potential victims.
Angel Leonel Alonzo, 22, of Los Angeles, was arrested Thursday morning by the Irvine Police Department.
Alonzo has been charged with three felony counts of oral copulation of a victim under the age of 16, two felony counts of unlawful sexual intercourse, one felony count of sodomy of a victim under the age of 16, one felony count of sexual penetration by a foreign object of a victim under the age of 16, one felony count of using a minor in the production of child pornography, and one felony count of sending child pornography to a minor.
He has also been charged with one misdemeanor count of possession of child pornography.
Alonzo faces a maximum sentence of 11 years, six months if convicted on all charges.
He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $100,000 bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on Monday, September 23, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. in CJ1.
“The internet provides predators with unfettered access to children who they can select and groom in order to abuse them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As parents, teachers, coaches, and mentors, we must do everything we can to educate our children about the dangers of the internet and prevent them from becoming victimized. And as law enforcement, we will hold these predators accountable.”
“The Irvine Police Department aggressively investigates crimes perpetrated against children and we are committed to safeguarding these vulnerable members of our community,” said Irvine Police Chief Mike Hamel.
Detectives are asking for anyone with information regarding other potential victims to contact the Irvine Police Detective Jameson Roberts at (949) 724-7170.
Deputy District Attorney Sarah Rahman of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Angel Leonel Alonzo
Child Pornography
Sexual Assault of a Minor
Unlawful sexual intercourse
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Press
63-year-old Real Estate Developer Charged with Raping Unconscious Teenager while Vacationing in Laguna Beach
