Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
November 23, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution
Ralphs, Food 4 Less and Saddleback Church join District Attorney’s Office, Orange County law enforcement in gang prevention efforts
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County prosecutors along with police and probation officers continued their partnership with Ralphs, Food 4 Less, and Saddleback Church to provide 440 Thanksgiving meals to OC GRIP students across Orange County in recognition of their dedication to improve their school attendance and grades and say no to gangs.
The COVID-19 pandemic forced the cancellation of an in-person celebration in front of the students’ families, teachers and OC GRIP mentors, but it didn’t prevent deserving students from receiving a gift card to buy a complete Thanksgiving meal.
The gift cards were generously donated by Ralphs and Food 4 Less. Saddleback Church provided congratulatory certificates to each student commending them for their hard work.
OC GRIP is a partnership of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, local law enforcement, and community partners working together to keep children out of gangs. OC GRIP provides education and resources to families throughout Orange County, including exposure to positive role models and mentoring by members of the community.
“Despite the challenges of a global pandemic and virtual learning, OC GRIP students continue to strive to be the best versions of themselves,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “I am constantly impressed by the dedication of these students who continue to put in the work to improve their grades and stay away from gangs, despite the immense pressure they face. It is through strong partnerships between government, schools, businesses, the Orange County Board of Supervisors, and the community that we are helping to provide a strong support system for our children and putting a stop to the cycle of gang violence. When these families sit around the dinner table this Thanksgiving, they aren’t just eating a meal – they are strengthening their family ties – and giving these children a strong foundation to succeed.”
Watch the
OC GRIP video
celebrating these very deserving students.
Tagged with:
Meal Distribution
OC GRIP
Thanksgiving
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Media Advisory
Press
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
Press
OC GRIP Hosts Gang Prevention Training for School Employees
Press
OC GRIP HOSTS TAEKWONDO SUMMER CAMP IN COSTA MESA
