Formerly Licensed Orange County Insurance Agent Arraigned on Grand Theft and Embezzlement Charges - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Formerly Licensed Orange County Insurance Agent Arraigned on Grand Theft and Embezzlement Charges
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
February 27, 2026
Home
Press
Formerly Licensed Orange County Insurance Agent Arraigned on Grand Theft and Embezzlement Charges
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 25, 2026
Case #: 25CF4895
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Formerly Licensed Orange County Insurance Agent Arraigned
on Grand Theft and Embezzlement Charges
ORANGE, Calif., – Insurance broker, Andre De Gazon, 56, of Bellflower, was arraigned today at the Orange County Superior Court on multiple felony counts of grand theft and embezzlement after allegedly using his status as a licensed insurance agent to pocket more than $100,000 of unremitted insurance policy premiums from victims.
An investigation by the Department of Insurance was launched after a complaint was filed by one of De Gazon’s victims. The brokerage company became aware of a problem when the Managing General Agent for their insurance carrier notified them that their premium payment was never forwarded by De Gazon.
De Gazon was a licensed insurance agent and owner of Liability Risk Management & Insurance Services, Inc., which specialized in locating professional liability policies for clients, or the clients of other retail brokers, with insurance carriers. Investigators discovered between June 2022 and October 2023, Liability Risk Management accepted $105,816.42 in premiums from victims and failed to remit those premiums directly to insurance carriers.
The investigation found that De Gazon failed to remit the full amount of premiums owed to insurers which put his victims at risk of losing their insurance coverage. The victims then had to pay the insurance carrier directly in order to maintain their coverage, resulting in double payments for coverage that should have only been paid for once. The premiums pocketed by De Gazon were not recovered.
De Gazon was arrested at his home on January 29, 2026 by Department of Insurance Fraud Enforcement agents. De Gazon’s insurance license expired in July 2024.This case is being prosecuted by the Major Fraud unit of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Andre De Gazon
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
