Former Member of University of California, Irvine Board of Directors Sentenced to 170 Years to Life for Molesting Three Girls - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Former Member of University of California, Irvine Board of Directors Sentenced to 170 Years to Life for Molesting Three Girls
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
November 22, 2019
Home
Press
Former Member of University of California, Irvine Board of Directors Sentenced to 170 Years to Life for Molesting Three Girls
Case #17HF1240
Former Member of University of California, Irvine Board of Directors Sentenced to 170 Years to Life for Molesting Three Young Girls
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Laguna Niguel girls softball parent volunteer and former member of the University of California, Irvine Board of Directors was sentenced to 170 years to life today for molesting three young girls at his home.
On October 15, 2019, a jury convicted Glen Thomas Kauffman, 55, of Laguna Niguel of six felony counts of lewd and lascivious acts with a minor under the age of 14 and three felony counts of sexual penetration of a minor 10 years old or younger.
The molestation occurred between August 2014 and August 2017 at Kauffman’s home.
“This predator used his position of trust to prey on these very young and vulnerable children,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Thankfully, he will spend the rest of his life behind bars instead of victimizing innocent children.
Deputy District Attorney Courtney Thom prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Glen Thomas Kauffman
lewd and lascivious acts on a minor
molestation
Softball Volunteer
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man Charged with Child Abuse involving Four Children in Cypress
Press
Convicted Sex Offender Charged with Molesting Three More Girls he Met while Teaching Elementary School Literacy Program
Press
Orange County District Attorney Files Special Circs Murder Charges in Current LA County Case against Sexually Violent Predator
