MEDIA ADVISORY - Prescription Drug Impaired Driving video - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY – Prescription Drug Impaired Driving video
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 12, 2017
Home
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY – Prescription Drug Impaired Driving video
Date: October 12, 2017
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO: The Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA)
WHAT: Released its third of four informative video bringing public awareness to the dangers of drug-impaired driving. The OCDA Appellate and Training Unit, through its administration of the California Traffic Safety Resource Prosecutor Program, worked with the California Office of Traffic Safety on the
public service announcements (PSAs)
. The link to the third PSA addressing prescription drug impaired driving is listed below. The final video, addressing marijuana impaired driving, will be released tomorrow.
WHEN: Today, Oct. 12, 2017
WHERE: To watch the new PSA, please click the link below:
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
