Local Uber Driver Accused of Sexually Assaulting Woman - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Local Uber Driver Accused of Sexually Assaulting Woman
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 10, 2020
Home
Press
Local Uber Driver Accused of Sexually Assaulting Woman
Case #20CF0119
Driver had been called to pick up woman from the Tustin police station after she was arrested for drunk driving
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 43-year old local Uber driver has been charged with repeatedly sexually assaulting an intoxicated woman while providing her a ride home from the Tustin Police Department in 2018.
Santa Ana Police Department arrested Amir Attia, of Tustin, on January 8, 2020. Attia is being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $200,000 bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on January 31, 2020.
Attia has be charged with two felony counts of sexual penetration and two misdemeanor counts of sexual battery. He faces a maximum sentence of six years if convicted on all counts.
On July 23, 2018, the victim had been involved in a traffic collision and was arrested for driving under the influence by the Tustin Police Department.
After police released her, she got in an Uber to go home.
During the Uber ride, Attia is accused of repeatedly stopping his vehicle and sexually assaulting the intoxicated woman.
The victim went to UCI Medical Center, and subsequently Anaheim Regional, the following day where a sexual assault kit was taken.
“Ridesharing services provide a valuable service in preventing intoxicated people from getting behind the wheel,”said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is tragic that this predator used his client’s state of intoxication to victimize her.”
Deputy District Attorney Courtney Thom of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Amir Attia
Sexual Assault
Sexual Battery
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
