Man Sentenced to 2 ½ Years in Jail for Ejaculating in Coworker’s Water Bottles, Smearing Semen on Her Belongings - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Man Sentenced to 2 ½ Years in Jail for Ejaculating in Coworker’s Water Bottles, Smearing Semen on Her Belongings
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 13, 2020
Home
Press
Man Sentenced to 2 ½ Years in Jail for Ejaculating in Coworker’s Water Bottles, Smearing Semen on Her Belongings
Case # 17NM17011
Man Sentenced to 2 ½ Years in Jail for Ejaculating in Coworker’s Water Bottles, Smearing Semen on Her Belongings
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been sentenced to 2 ½ years in the Orange County Jail for battery and assault charges for spreading his semen on a female coworker’s desk mouse and ejaculating in her water bottles and jar of honey.  One incident was captured on surveillance video.
Stevens Millancastro, 30, of Hawthorne, was convicted on September 21, 2020 of three misdemeanor counts of assault and two misdemeanor counts of battery.  He was sentenced today to 2 ½ years in the Orange County Jail. Judge Kathleen Roberts exercised her judicial discretion to require Millancastro to register as a sex offender.
“Today’s sentence was the maximum allowed under the law, and Judge Roberts’ imposition of the maximum possible sentence and the requirement for him to register as a sex offender is a recognition of the trauma inflicted on an innocent woman who was simply trying to do her job in the workplace,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Millancastro worked with the female victim between 2014 and 2017 in La Palma.  He masturbated eight times at work in 2016 and deposited his semen in her honey jar and spread his semen onto her office keyboard and mouse.  The victim consumed the honey for a period of time not knowing it contained Millancastro’s semen.  He also ejaculated into three of her water bottles which she noticed to be cloudy each time and threw away.
After noticing discoloration of the water in her bottle a third time she reported it to her supervisor.  A surveillance camera was then set up in her office. The next day, she touched her computer mouse which was smeared with semen.  Millancastro was seen on the surveillance footage entering her office prior to this incident.  The female victim filed a report with the La Palma police department who investigated the incidents and arrested Millancastro.
Deputy District Attorney Laila Nikaien of Special Prosecutions prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Battery
Stevens Millancastro
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
