Redondo Beach Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder for Stabbing Strangers During Fourth of July Fireworks Celebration, Killing Two and Injuring Three - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Redondo Beach Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder for Stabbing Strangers During Fourth of July Fireworks Celebration, Killing Two and Injuring Three
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
July 9, 2024
Home
Press
Redondo Beach Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder for Stabbing Strangers During Fourth of July Fireworks Celebration, Killing Two and Injuring Three
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 9, 2024
Case #: 24CF1731
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Redondo Beach Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder for Stabbing Strangers During Fourth of July Fireworks Celebration, Killing Two and Injuring Three
Special circumstances murder charges make defendant eligible for maximum sentence of death penalty or life without the possibility of
parole
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Redondo Beach man has been charged with special circumstances murder for stabbing five strangers during a Fourth of July fireworks celebration, killing two men and injuring three others in Huntington Beach, after drinking and taking hallucinogenic drugs. He is also charged with assaulting a teenage boy while he helped to keep him detained following the fatal attack on a group of strangers.
Logan Christopher Kelley, 26, of Redondo Beach, has been charged with two felony counts of murder with the special circumstance of multiple murders, three felony counts of attempted murder, one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon, and one misdemeanor count of battery on a police officer. He has also been charged with a felony enhancement of personal use of a deadly weapon.
The special circumstances murder charges make Kelley eligible for a maximum sentence of the death penalty or life without the possibility of parole. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office convenes a special circumstances committee after the preliminary hearing is held to determine whether to pursue the death penalty in special circumstances murder cases. This process includes a presentation of the case by the prosecutor as well as from the defense. The elected District Attorney makes the ultimate decision whether to pursue death following that process. If the decision is not to pursue death, then the maximum sentence is life without the possibility of parole.
Kelley is scheduled to be arraigned today in Department C5 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
Just after 11 p.m. on July 4, 2024, a group of people were watching fireworks being ignited in the street near the intersection of Pecan Avenue and 16
th
Street when a man later identified as Logan Kelley approached and started stabbing people with a knife. Kelley is not believed to have had any prior relationship with the group prior to the attack.
Eric Hodges, 42, was stabbed in the heart, and William Collins, 47, was stabbed in the lung and neck. Both died from their wounds. Two 35-year-old men along with one of the injured men’s 68-year-old father were also stabbed in the attack, but their injuries were not life-threatening.
Several people, including a 16-year-old boy, helped detain Kelley until police arrived. Kelley is accused of spitting on a Huntington Beach police officer and using a racial slur while he was being arrested.
“A day of celebrating America and all the freedoms we all enjoy turned into deadly chaos at the hands of a stranger,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We as Americans should be able to enjoy spending time with our friends and families without worrying about being brutally stabbed in the street in a random attack. Violence of any kind will never be acceptable and while we mourn the loss of Eric and William we remain steadfast in our commitment to justice to hold their killer accountable for their deaths and the trauma he inflicted on those he injured and those who witnessed this carnage.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Lexie Elliot of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Logan Christopher Kelley
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 8 =
