MEDIA ADVISORY - 9th Annual Victims' Rights Rally Speakers - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY – 9th Annual Victims’ Rights Rally Speakers
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 29, 2017
Home
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY – 9th Annual Victims’ Rights Rally Speakers
Date: March 29, 2017
MEDIA ADVISORY – 9th Annual Victims’ Rights Rally Speakers
WHO: Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
WHAT: Is pleased to announce the speakers for the 9
th
Annual Victims’ Rights Rally
WHEN: Thursday, April 6, 2017, at 5:00 p.m. (Reception) and 6:00 p.m. (Rally)
WHERE: County of Orange Hall of Administration, 333 West Santa Ana Blvd., Santa Ana
SPEAKERS:
Tina Mora
is the sister of homicide victim Cathy Torrez who was murdered on Feb. 19, 1994. Torrez was stabbed over 70 times and left in the trunk of her abandoned car in Placentia by Samuel and Xavier Lopez. Her case was unsolved for 15 years. Samuel Lopez was found guilty by a jury of murder with a sentencing enhancement for use of a deadly and dangerous weapon and sentenced to 26 years to life in state prison in May 2015. Xavier Lopez pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and being an accessory after the fact and was sentenced to four years and eight months in jail.
On the evening of Feb. 12, 1994, Torrez left work and met with her then-boyfriend, Samuel Lopez, in a nearby parking lot. During the course of an argument in the victim’s car, Lopez attacked Torrez with a knife. The victim attempted to flee from the vehicle, but Lopez chased after her and stabbed Torrez repeatedly in the face, head, and torso. The defendant’s cousin, Xavier Lopez, closed the trunk of the victim’s car where Torrez’s body was placed after Samuel Lopez murdered her. A week later, Torrez’s body was found inside the trunk of her abandoned Toyota Corolla in a hospital parking lot. Samuel and Xavier Lopez provided an alibi for each other on the night of the murder and the case went unsolved for over a decade.
In 2007, the OCDA TracKRS Unit and Placentia Police Department began investigating this case when new DNA evidence technology linked Samuel Lopez and Xavier Lopez to the crime. The Cathy Torrez Learning Center in Placentia was named in her honor.
Kelli Peters
is a victim of Jill and Kent Easter, who were found guilty of false imprisonment by violence, menace, fraud, or deceit. On Oct. 17, 2014, Kent Easter was sentenced to 180 days in jail and 100 hours community service. Jill Easter was sentenced on Oct. 30, 2013, to 120 days in jail and 100 hours community service.
In 2010, Peters was a parent volunteer at an elementary school in Irvine, where the defendants’ child was a student. Jill Easter became angry with the victim because she believed Peters was not properly supervising her child. During the early morning hours of Feb. 16, 2011, Kent Easter drove to Peters’ home and placed a bag of controlled substances behind the driver’s seat of her vehicle. Kent Easter called the Irvine Police Department (IPD) and said he was a concerned parent who witnessed an erratic driver park at the elementary school with a bag of drugs behind her driver’s seat. Peters was contacted on the school campus and detained as IPD investigated the case. No evidence was found to support that she was knowingly in possession of the marijuana or prescription pills found in her vehicle.
For registration and event information, please visit
https://ocdavictimsrightsrally.eventbrite.com
Tagged with:
Victim's Rights
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Media Advisory
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office to Honor, Empower Victims at 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally
Press
2019 VICTIMS’ RIGHTS RALLY TO SHOWCASE STORIES OF EMPOWERMENT, CONTINUED FIGHT FOR VICTIMS’ RIGHTS
Press
DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S OFFICE TO HONOR, EMPOWER VICTIMS AT 2019 VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH AND RALLY
