63-year-old Real Estate Developer Charged with Raping Unconscious Teenager while Vacationing in Laguna Beach - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
63-year-old Real Estate Developer Charged with Raping Unconscious Teenager while Vacationing in Laguna Beach
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
July 9, 2021
Home
Press
63-year-old Real Estate Developer Charged with Raping Unconscious Teenager while Vacationing in Laguna Beach
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 9, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Texas man facing additional sexual battery charges involving second 16-year-old girl he brought to Orange County; Texas authorities have also charged him with felony sexual assault of a minor.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 63-year-old Texas real estate developer has been charged with sexually assaulting two 16-year-old girls vacationing with him in Laguna Beach, including raping one of the teenagers while she was unconscious. The Orange County charges were filed a day after authorities in Texas filed a felony sexual assault charge against him involving a 16-year-old girl in his Dallas-area home.
William Hutchinson, 63, of Highland Park, Texas, has been charged with one felony count of rape of an unconscious person and five misdemeanor counts of sexual battery for incidents involving two 16-year-old girls.
He faces a maximum sentence of eight years in state prison and 2 1/2 years in the Orange County Jail.
Hutchinson turned himself in to Highland Park, Texas police on Wednesday, July 7 and was later released on a $30,000 bond. An Orange County arrest warrant has been issued for Hutchinson.
Hutchinson is accused of bringing the two 16-year-old girls on vacation to his Laguna Beach home on two different occasions in April. He is accused of raping one of the girls while she was unconscious and committing four acts of sexual battery against the girl. When the victim declined to return to Laguna Beach again, Hutchinson is accused of returning to his vacation home with the other 16-year-old girl at the end of May and committing sexual battery against her during the trip.
Deputy District Attorney Raquel Cooper of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Rape
Sexual Assault of a Minor
Sexual Battery
William Hutchinson
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
Media Advisory
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: Orange County District Attorney, Sheriff to Provide Critical Update on Search for Aliso Viejo Serial Rapist
