Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son, Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
November 22, 2021
Home
Press
Tennessee Man Charged with Kidnapping 3-year-old Son,  Sexually Assaulting 16-year-old Niece
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 22, 2021
Case # 21HF2048
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Missing children were reunited with their mothers last week after Good Samaritan recognized them from social media reports about their disappearance
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been charged with multiple felonies in connection with kidnapping his three-year-old son from Tennessee and sexually assaulting his 16-year-old niece after bringing the children to California. The missing children, who were the subject of a Tennessee Amber Alert that launched a multi-state manhunt, were found at Doheny State Beach last week after a Good Samaritan recognized them from coverage about their disappearance.
Jacob Francis Allen Clare, 35, has been charged with one felony count of kidnapping from outside California, two felony counts of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor, two felony counts of oral copulation with a minor, one felony count of sexual penetration by a foreign object of a minor, and two felony counts of incest.
He faces a maximum sentence of 14 years and 4 months in state prison if convicted on all charges. Clare is currently being held on no bail at the Intake Release Center in Santa Ana. He is scheduled to be arraigned today in CJ1.
Clare is facing additional charges in Tennessee.
Clare and his 3-year-old son were reported missing by the boy’s mother on Nov.  7, 2021 after the boy failed to return from a scheduled visit. Clare’s 16-year-old niece was reported missing from her Kentucky home several days later. Authorities believe the teenager went willingly with Clare.
Clare is accused of kidnapping his 3-year-old son from Tennessee and taking him out-of-state failing to return him to his mother, prompting the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation to issue an Amber Alert for the missing child and his father. Clare is accused of taking his 16-year-old niece along on a cross-country trip that ended in California.
Authorities found Clare’s abandoned vehicle in San Clemente and urged residents to be on the lookout for Clare and the missing children.
Between November 11 and November 18, 2021, Clare is accused of engaging in unlawful sexual intercourse with his 16-year-old niece.
Clare was arrested on November 18, 2021 after a Good Samaritan noticed the man and two children walking on Pacific Coast Highway near Doheny State Beach in Dana Point and called authorities. Both children have been reunited with their mothers.
“No parent should have to suffer the trauma of not knowing where their child is and when or if they are ever coming home,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The blatant exploitation of these children and the pain and misery the actions of a single individual has caused is unconscionable. These are innocent children and the selfish and depraved acts of this individual ripped a little boy out of the arms of his mother and stole the innocence of a little girl. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will do everything it can to prevent this monster from hurting any more children.”
Deputy District Attorney Juliet Oliver of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Jacob Francis Allen Clare
Kidnapping
Sexual Assault of a Minor
Unlawful Sexual Intercourse with Minor
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
Press
Man Accused of Being Serial Rapist Charged with Kidnapping Three Orange County Women off Aliso Viejo Trails to Sexually Assault
Media Advisory
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: Orange County District Attorney, Sheriff to Provide Critical Update on Search for Aliso Viejo Serial Rapist
