Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Author
Chase Healy
Published
July 30, 2025
Home
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 30, 2025
Case # 25HF1947
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men,
Including
Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While
Hurling Racial Slurs
Santa Ana – An Irvine man has been charged with attacking two Hispanic men in hate motivated attacks, throwing a cup of hot coffee on one man while driving and getting out of his van to punch an elderly driver repeatedly at a stop light while hurling racial slurs.
Robert Tackett, 54, of Irvine, has been charged with one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm, one felony count of violation of civil rights, one felony count of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury, and one felony count of inflicting injury on an elder adult.
He faces a maximum sentence of eight years in state prison if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $500,000 bail.
On July 22, 2025, around 9:30 a.m. a driver in Irvine began filming after he noticed a man having a negative interaction with the driver of a garbage truck. The man, later identified as Tackett, is accused of following him in his work van, yelling anti-Hispanic racial slurs as he pulled up next to the victim and tried to run him off the road. He is also accused of trying to slam into the other driver’s vehicle, forcing the victim to slam on his brakes twice to avoid a collision.
After two failed attempts to crash into the victim, Tackett is accused of throwing a hot cup of coffee into the victim’s vehicle, dousing the victim with hot coffee.
The victim did not call law enforcement but was identified after he posted his video to social media.
Around 5:30 p.m. the same day, Tackett is accused of getting out of his work van while stopped at a stop light in Westminster and punching a 72-year-old driver repeatedly through the open window of the victim’s pickup truck while yelling profanity and anti-Hispanic slurs. The elderly driver attempted to block Tackett from punching him.
Another driver recorded the attack and later contacted the Irvine Police Department after video of the first attack was published on social media.
Tackett was identified and arrested by the California Highway Patrol on July 24, 2025, in Mammoth.
“Hate is a venom that poisons everything – and everyone – it touches. An attack motivated by hate is not an attack on just a single individual; it is an attack on the very fabric of our society and our community as a whole,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As the elected District Attorney of Orange County, I refuse to allow the fabric of our community to be ripped apart by acts of hate. Every member of our society deserves to go about their days unafraid that they would be targeted because of the color of their skin, their gender, or their sexual orientation. We must collectively combat hate by speaking up and speaking out against hate – and haters – to continue to send a strong message that hate will never be tolerated here in Orange County or anywhere.”
Deputy District Attorney Alex Shaaban of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Hate Crime
Robert Tackett
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
