Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Protests - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Protests
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 31, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Protests
Peaceful Protests are Encouraged; Looting, Rioting will be Prosecuted in Orange County
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement regarding the protests in the wake of the death of George Floyd last week while in police custody in Minnesota:
The right to make your voices heard will always be protected. The overwhelming majority of the people taking to the streets are doing it peacefully and with respect.
It is not the bottles that are thrown or the fires that are set that will encourage people to listen to your hurt, your anger, and your calls for change. I have watched many police officers have come face to face with protestors – and when everyone remains calm – truly incredible things happen. People see each other for the humans for which we all are. And as humans, we want peace and equality.
You have the right to protest – but when those protest cross the line into criminality – it will not be tolerated in Orange County. As a police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department, I watched the streets of Los Angeles burn during the 1992 riots.
Looting and rioting is not about justice. It is about opportunists who are corrupting a cause to steal, robbery crews who pile out of cars with lookouts timing their looting sprees in order to evade police.
Business owners who were just getting ready to re-open after months of being closed due to a global pandemic are having to watch their dreams – and their livelihoods – reduced to shards of glass and twisted metal.
This does not honor the memory of George Floyd; in fact, it desecrates his memory.
This violence unnecessarily puts the lives of peaceful protestors, firefighters, police officers, and innocent bystanders at risk. This is not the Orange County we want.
I am calling on every police chief and the Sheriff to submit their looting and rioting cases to me for criminal prosecution as soon as possible. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will prosecute every criminal act we can prove beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Make your voices heard – but do it peacefully so that you may be heard.
Tagged with:
George Floyd
Looting
Media statement
Protest
Rioting
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Twelve Mentally Ill Offenders, including Murder Defendant, to Be Released Back into Our Communities Unsupervised in Next Two Months  If County of Orange Fails to Find Treatment Beds  Two serious offenders could be released back into Orange County as early as Friday.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assisting Federal, State Efforts to Hold Rioters Responsible for Siege on U.S. Capitol
Press
OC District Attorney Todd Spitzer and Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis Issue Statement on Death of James Alan Neal
