LAUNDROMAT RAPIST SENTENCED TO 36 YEARS - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
LAUNDROMAT RAPIST SENTENCED TO 36 YEARS
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 21, 2005
Home
Press
LAUNDROMAT RAPIST SENTENCED TO 36 YEARS
For Immediate Release
October 21, 2005
Contact:
Mark Macaulay
Media Relations Spokesperson
(714) 347-8405 Office
(714) 323-4486 Cell
LAUNDROMAT rapist sentenced to
36 years to life in prison
Santa Ana – Allen George Plumb, 20, of Huntington Beach, was sentenced today to 36 years to life in prison for the 2003 kidnap, robbery, and rape of a 24-year-old woman (Jane Doe) who he attacked in the laundry room of her apartment complex.
Jane Doe did not know the defendant.
Plumb was convicted by a jury on June 28, 2005 on the following:
kidnapping to commit rape, forcible rape, forcible sodomy, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration, and residential robbery while using a deadly weapon.
Plumb had meticulously planned and set out to rape a woman without leaving his DNA.
Unfortunately for Jane Doe who was working and going to school, he spotted her on the morning of August 4, 2003, while she was washing her clothes in the laundry room of her apartment complex in Huntington Beach.
The defendant entered the room and pulled a weapon (later identified as a pellet gun).
Jane Doe believed it was a real firearm.
He forced her to remove her clothes.
Then he directed her to put her clothes back on, and he forced her to leave the laundry room and walk up three flights of stairs.
In a secluded stairwell of the building, Plumb forced Jane Doe to again disrobe.
Then he violently sexually assaulted and raped her.
Then he fled with the victim’s clothes.
Jane Doe managed to go to her apartment and call the police.
DNA samples were taken as a part of the examination of Jane Doe.
DNA taken from the examination matched the defendant’s profile.
“Mr. Plumb preyed on a young woman doing her laundry so she could go to Catalina that day,”
said Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Hess.
“She is a courageous woman who came to court and faced her brutal attacker so he can never do this to anyone again.”
Plumb was sentenced under “the one strike and you are out” law for serious and violent sex offenders by Judge William Evans in the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
Deputy District Attorney Dan Hess, of the District Attorney’s Sexual Assault Unit prosecuted the case.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
