County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
Author
Justin Yun
Published
March 13, 2026
Home
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 13, 2026
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions
in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
Orange County District Attorney’s Office has been working with the Department of Justice to identify and liquidate former Supervisor’s assets to repay stolen taxpayer funds; Do is currently serving five-year federal prison sentence,
two other co-conspirators have been indicted and the investigation into other co-conspirators is ongoing.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The United States Department of Justice has determined the County of Orange is the only victim in the conspiracy orchestrated by former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do to steal millions in COVID-related funds in exchange for $550,000 in bribes, and the County is entitled to more than $8.8 million in total restitution as a result of the actions of the disgraced county supervisor and his co-conspirators.
The United States Attorney’s Office, in collaboration with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, has seized and forfeited assets valued at approximately $3.7 million, which were directly traceable to the conspiracy and were subject to federal forfeiture proceedings. The forfeited assets were a combination of seized bank funds and two real properties.
In a March 9, 2026, letter, the U.S. Department of Justice’s Money Laundering, Narcotics, and Forfeiture Section announced that it has granted the County’s restitution petition in the full amount of $8,849,511.80, which reflects the County’s documented loss as a result of the fraud scheme carried out by Do and his co-conspirators. The County of Orange has already received the $3.7 million in restitution from the forfeited assets, which was remitted to the county by the Department of Justice.
As part of his plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, Do admitted he directed and worked together with other county employees to approve contracts with – and payments to – Viet America Society, a charity affiliated with his daughter, Rhiannon. Do further admitted he acted corruptly and abused his position of trust as a county supervisor. He is currently serving a five-year sentence in federal prison after admitting that in exchange for more than $550,000 in bribes, he voted in favor of and directed millions of dollars in COVID-related funds to his co-conspirators.
On June 9, 2025, Do was sentenced to the maximum five years in federal prison by U.S. District Court Judge James V. Selna, who lamented in open court that he was precluded from sentencing Do to additional time for breaching the public’s trust as an elected official.
At an August 11, 2025, restitution hearing, Judge Selna ordered Do to pay the County of Orange a total of $878,230.80 in restitution – including $250,000 within 30 days – for steering and voting in favor of more than $10 million worth of County contracts and grants to his co-conspirators. That amount represents the bribes he and his direct family members received as part of the scheme. Do represented in court documents and through his attorneys on the record that he had the ability to immediately pay the $250,000, a fact confirmed through a review of Do’s financial assets conducted as part of the federal government’s presentencing report.
In a letter to the Court, Do wrote, “I am guilty. I am ashamed and fully admit the wrongs that I have done.”
The stolen money was purported to be used to feed Do’s elderly and disabled constituents during the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic. In reality, just 15% of the funds – approximately $1.4 million – were spent for their intended uses with the rest funding real estate purchases, lavish meals, and other luxury purchases, along with bribes for Do and his two daughters, and a down payment for an over $1 million home in Tustin for his daughter, Rhiannon Do.
The joint investigation and prosecution by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office into the fraud conspiracy is ongoing. Two other co-conspirators have been indicted, and there is an active federal warrant for the arrest of co-conspirator Peter Pham.
“I made it unequivocally clear that I would do everything in my power to return every stolen dollar possible to the rightful owners – and that is what I, along with our federal partners, am doing,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Orange County taxpayers have had enough of the broken promises and lies of Andrew Do, it is about time that the taxpayer dollars he stole to line his pockets, and the pockets of his inner circle are returned to the residents for whom that money was intended – the residents of the First District.”
As part of the criminal investigation, the Asset Forfeiture Unit of the United States Attorney’s Office, in cooperation with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, seized the below assets belonging to various co-conspirators as being fruits of the fraud scheme:
$1,702,630.86 in bank funds seized from JP Morgan Chase Bank Account No. ‘5796
$724,749.10 in bank funds seized from JP Morgan Chase Bank Account No. ‘5136
$378,257.43 in net proceeds from the sale of the forfeited real property located at 14732 Candeda Place, Tustin, CA 92780
$893,665.31 in net proceeds from the sale of the forfeited real property located at 2410 W. 17th Street Santa Ana, CA 92706
Due to his guilty plea, personal judgment liens have been recorded against all assets owned by Andrew Do, including his home in North Tustin.  The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the United States Attorney’s Office have worked to expedite the transfer of these funds to the victim, the County of Orange.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Andrew Do
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
Moulton Niguel Water District President Duane Cave Pleads Guilty to Falsifying Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election when he Lied about Living within the Water District Boundaries Orange County District Attorney’s Office Demanded Cave Immediately Resign from Moulton Niguel Water District.
