TIMELINE OF PEOPLE V. GRANT ROBICHEAUX AND CERISSA RILEY CASE BEFORE FILING - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
TIMELINE OF PEOPLE V. GRANT ROBICHEAUX  AND CERISSA RILEY CASE BEFORE FILING
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 21, 2018
Home
Press
TIMELINE OF PEOPLE V. GRANT ROBICHEAUX  AND CERISSA RILEY CASE BEFORE FILING
Case # 18HF1291
Date: September 21, 2018
TIMELINE OF
PEOPLE V. GRANT ROBICHEAUX AND CERISSA RILEY
CASE BEFORE FILING
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Since the Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA) has been made aware of the allegations involving Defendants Robicheaux and Riley, we have been diligently pursuing justice on this case consistent with our ethical responsibilities. Prosecutors and Investigators in the Sexual Assault Unit of the OCDA were instrumental in rekindling the investigation on this case after learning about it through a “DNA cold-hit” on a case related to these defendants. All law enforcement investigations require a full and complete analysis of all available evidence. The very nature of sexual assault cases and the inherent difficulties involved in investigating such allegations often require additional measures to garner the required corroboration to obtain evidence necessary to fulfill our prosecutorial burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
The OCDA and the Newport Beach Police Department (NBPD) have worked together since September 2017 to obtain all available evidence in this case. There have been several meetings between the two agencies with that goal. Much of the information required in this prosecution involved the need to obtain, decrypt, and analyze terabytes of digital evidence through search warrants from technology companies. The OCDA is committed to protecting the public and is determined to devote all necessary resources to investigate the leads that have arisen in this case and to obtain justice for all the courageous survivors who have so bravely come forward to report their victimization at the hands of these defendants.
The timeline of the
People v. Grant Robicheaux and Cerissa Riley
case before filing is as follows:
April 10, 2016 – The defendants are accused of supplying multiple drugs to Jane Doe 1 then raping and orally copulating her while she was prevented from resisting due to intoxicating and controlled substances and they should have reasonably known of her condition.
April 12, 2016 – Jane Doe 1 contacted the NBPD and underwent a forensic exam, which tested positive for multiple controlled substances.
Oct. 2, 2016 – Robicheaux and Riley are accused of drinking alcohol with Jane Doe 2 at a bar in Newport Beach until the victim was no longer conscious. The defendants are accused of bringing Jane Doe 2 to Robicheaux’s apartment and sexually assaulting her with intent to commit rape. Jane Doe 2 awoke and screamed for help until a neighbor called NBPD, who responded to the scene and investigated this case.
Aug. 28, 2017 – The OCDA receives cold DNA hit from CODIS.
Sept. 6, 2017 – OCDA starts working with NBPD and asks for the police reports. OCDA learns there were multiple reports involving defendant Robicheaux.
Sept. 14, 2017 – OCDA requested discovery from NBPD on the CODIS case for a second time.
Oct. 11, 2017 – OCDA requested all related reports from NBPD on Robicheaux.
Oct. 17, 2017 – OCDA received all reports from NBPD who stated victims were reluctant at the time to move forward in the process.
Oct. 18, 2017 – OCDA provided a list to NBPD for further investigation.
Oct. 26, 2017 – OCDA and NBPD meet at OCDA’s request to discuss progress.
Nov. 7, 2017 – OCDA and NBPD meet again at OCDA’s request. NBPD indicates they will work on list provided by OCDA. OCDA Investigator offers to assist NBPD with investigation.
Dec. 5, 2017 – OCDA initiates a third meeting with NBPD to discuss progress.
Dec. 27, 2017 – OCDA receives NBPD search warrant and signs off on it.
Jan. 3, 2018 – Search warrant signed by The Honorable Gregory W. Jones.
Jan. 9, 2018 – NBPD serves search warrant – personnel from medical board present.
Jan. 11, 2018 –Follow-up warrant requested for iCloud, Google, and Yahoo.
o   Delay occurs in this time period because Apple uploaded all iCloud information to a hard drive, which consisted of multiple terabytes of information.
Feb. 23, 2018 – NBPD received hard drive from Apple.
March 6, 2018 – NBPD submits hard drive to Orange County Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory (OCRCFL) for forensic examination.
May 4, 2018 – OCRCFL notified NBPD that the hard drive had been decrypted and was ready to be reviewed.
o   During this time period, there was a delay because NBPD was processing the terabytes of digital information in an effort to find either additional victims or corroboration for already identified victims.
Late August 2018 – OCDA follows up with NBPD to submit all evidence for filing review.
Sept. 6, 2018 – NBPD submits the case to OCDA for filing consideration and is informed the case is ready for execution of arrest warrants.
Sept. 11, 2018 – OCDA files the complaint as a walk-through warrant at Harbor Justice Center.
Sept. 12, 2018 – NBPD arrested Robicheaux and Riley on the warrant.
Tagged with:
Anasthesia
Assault
Assault Weapon
Cerissa Riley
Grant Robicheaux
Kidnapping
Rape
Rape by use of Drugs
Sexual Assault
Sexual Offence
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
