High School Student Charged with Murder in Stabbing Death of 14-year-old Santa Ana Boy at Santa Ana High School - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
High School Student Charged with Murder in Stabbing Death of 14-year-old Santa Ana Boy at Santa Ana High School
Author
Chase Healy
Published
May 9, 2025
Home
Press
High School Student Charged with Murder in Stabbing Death of 14-year-old Santa Ana Boy at Santa Ana High School
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 9, 2025
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
High School Student Charged with Murder in Stabbing Death of 14-year-old
Santa Ana Boy at Santa Ana High School
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A teenager has been charged with murder for stabbing his 14-year-old Santa Ana High School classmate to death just after school ended Wednesday afternoon. The teenager has also been charged with two counts of assault with a deadly weapon for stabbing two other classmates.
Per Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 827 and 828, the District Attorney’s Office is prohibited from disclosing the name of juveniles involved in criminal investigations or discussing juvenile investigations with the exception of offenses which are deemed to be public offenses under California law. Murder and assault with a deadly weapon have been deemed public offenses under California law.
Officers were called to Santa Ana High School shortly after 3 p.m. after several teenagers were involved in an altercation in a parking lot shared with Martin R. Heninger Elementary School. Three teenagers were stabbed, including a 14-year-old boy who died after being stabbed in the heart. The other two victims are expected to survive.
No other details regarding the investigation will be released at this time per Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 827 and 828.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Santa Ana High School Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
