Mother Charged With Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery For Instructing Teenage Daughter to Hit Another Child During a Youth Basketball Game - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Mother Charged With Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery For Instructing Teenage Daughter to Hit Another Child  During a Youth Basketball Game
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 9, 2021
Home
Press
Mother Charged With Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery For Instructing Teenage Daughter to Hit Another Child  During a Youth Basketball Game
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 9, 2021
Case #21WM16031
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A mother has been charged with contributing to the delinquency of a minor and battery for yelling at her daughter to hit another child during a youth basketball game in Garden Grove last month. The rival player collapsed on the court following an unprovoked attack that was captured on a now-viral video.
Latira (Tira) Shonty Hunt, 44, of La Puente, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of contributing to the delinquency of a minor and one misdemeanor count of battery. She faces a maximum sentence of one year in Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts.
“It is unconscionable that a parent would encourage her child to engage in violence during a sporting event,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Youth sports are invaluable in teaching our children discipline, teamwork, and sportsmanship. But a win at all costs mentality that is completely devoid of fair play, respect, and civility is disgusting. We as parents have the fundamental responsibility to raise our children to be good human beings who treat others with kindness and humanity. Competitive greatness is something that should be encouraged, but encouraging violence against a rival player is criminal. I will not allow a child to be intentionally subjected to physical harm under the guise of a youth sporting event under any circumstances. Cheer your children on. Encourage them to excel in every aspect of life, from the classroom to the basketball court and everything in between. But if you cross the line and encourage violence, I will prosecute you. We must do better for our children.”
On November 7, 2021, Hunt was in the stands at the MAPS sports facility in the city of Garden Grove watching her teenage daughter compete in a youth basketball game.
Hunt is accused of yelling “you better hit her for that” to her daughter after she had interaction with a rival player on the court. Seconds later, the rival player fell to the court after an unprovoked attack.
Per Welfare and Institutions Code Section 828, the District Attorney’s Office is prohibited from discussing anything related to juvenile investigations.
Assistant District Attorney Suzie Price is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Battery
contributing to the delinquency of a minor
Juvenile Crime
Latira (Tira) Shonty Hunt
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
Press
Man Charged with Additional Hate Crime for Violating Civil Rights of Japanese-American Olympian in Verbal Attack
