TWO SEX PURCHASERS CONVICTED FOR AGREEING TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL SEX WITH WOMAN - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
TWO SEX PURCHASERS CONVICTED FOR AGREEING TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL SEX WITH WOMAN
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 16, 2013
Home
Press
TWO SEX PURCHASERS CONVICTED FOR AGREEING TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL SEX WITH WOMAN
For Immediate Release
Case # 13CM05987
13NM09072
September 16, 2013
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
TWO SEX PURCHASERS CONVICTED FOR AGREEING TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL SEX WITH WOMAN
SANTA ANA – Two sex purchasers were convicted and sentenced Thursday for agreeing to engage in commercial sex with a woman whom they believed to be a prostitute. Elijah David Venegas, 30, Whittier, and Jason Paul Smith 33, Buena Park, each pleaded guilty Thursday, Sept. 12, 2013, to one misdemeanor count of agreeing to engage in prostitution. Venegas was sentenced
three years of informal probation, 10 days in jail with the possibility of CalTrans in lieu of jail, and must submit to AIDS testing and education. Smith
was sentenced
three years of informal probation, 30 days in jail with the possibility of CalTrans in lieu of jail, and must submit to AIDS testing and education.
At approximately 4:40 a.m. on July 10, 2013, Venegas drove his car up to a woman in the area of 3500 West Hazard Avenue in Santa Ana and engaged in a brief conversation with her before she got inside the vehicle. A Santa Ana Police Department (SAPD) officer observed the interaction and arrested Venegas for soliciting sex from the woman.
The area of 3500 West Hazard Avenue in Santa Ana is known to law enforcement to be a high-prostitution area and is known to frequently be used by individuals who sexually exploit and traffic women and underage girls for financial gain, including pimps, panderers, and human traffickers.
At approximately 4:00 p.m. on July 31, 2013, Smith responded to an advertisement on a website known for prostitution. Smith agreed to meet with a female Buena Park Police Department (BPPD) undercover officer, whom he believed to be a prostitute. BPPD arrested Smith when he attempted to meet with the undercover officer at a motel for commercial sex.
These cases were prosecuted by the Orange County District Attorney’s Human Exploitation And Trafficking (HEAT) Unit, which targets perpetrators who sexually exploit and traffic women and underage girls for financial gain, including pimps, panderers, and human traffickers. Commercial sex trafficking is the second most lucrative criminal enterprise behind narcotics trafficking. Often the perpetrators are gang members and/or career criminals.
The HEAT Unit also targets defendants who create a demand for prostitution by soliciting and purchasing sex, which increases the commercial sexual exploitation of women and children. The HEAT Unit uses a tactical plan called
PERP
:
P
rosecution of human trafficking perpetrators and sex purchasers;
E
ducation for law enforcement to properly handle human trafficking and pandering cases;
R
esources to raise public awareness and provide assistance to the victims; and
P
ublicity to inform the community about the problem and notify human traffickers and sex purchasers that this crime cannot be perpetrated without suffering severe consequences.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
