Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Them Pornographic Videos of Himself - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Them Pornographic Videos of Himself
Author
Justin Yun
Published
September 25, 2025
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates, Showing Them Pornographic Videos of Himself
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 25, 2025
Case #:  22CM10478
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Pleads Guilty to Sexually Assaulting Female Inmates,
Showing Them Pornographic Videos of Himself
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy has pleaded guilty to sexually assaulting two female inmates, including directing them to engage in sexual activity, while assigned to work at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange. He was sentenced to 364 days credit time served and ordered to register as a sex offender.
Arcadio Rodriguez, 30, of Stanton, was charged in January 2023 with one misdemeanor count of sexual battery, one misdemeanor count of a detention facility employee engaging in sexual activity with a confined consenting adult, and one misdemeanor count of possession of a cell phone in a correctional facility.
Rodriguez has been on GPS monitoring since January 2025. In addition to the 364 days of custody time, Rodriguez was ordered to register as a sex offender for a minimum of 10 years and was placed on one-year formal probation.
The deputy established an inappropriate relationship with two female inmates incarcerated at the Theo Lacy Facility, which included touching them in intimate areas over their jail uniforms and showing them pornographic videos of himself while they were in their housing locations.
The assaults are believed to have begun in May 2022. Rodriguez was arrested after the Orange County Sheriff’s Department launched an investigation after discovering communications regarding inappropriate sexual behavior between by a deputy toward a female inmate.
“Inmates are completely dependent on Sheriff’s deputies and other jail staff for everything from food and medication to clothing.  These women were awaiting trial and had no way of escaping a predator who literally held the keys to their captivity and ordered them to perform at his every whim,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “To have a sworn deputy sheriff betray his oath of office to serve and protect by preying on vulnerable incarcerated individuals for his own sexual gratification is an embarrassment to the badge and to all the hardworking law enforcement professionals who carry out their duties lawfully each and every day.”
Current California law only allows prosecutors to charge a misdemeanor when a detention facility employee engages in sexual activity with a confined adult over the clothes instead of skin to skin. Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer has been aggressively seeking a change to state law to allow prosecutors to charge the behavior as a felony or a misdemeanor.
Senior Deputy District Attorney David McMurrin of Special Prosecutions prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release
###
Tagged with:
Arcadio Rodriguez
Special Prosecutions
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
