Man Convicted of Escaping from Orange County Jail, Kidnapping Cab Driver to aid in Getaway - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Convicted of Escaping from Orange County Jail, Kidnapping Cab Driver to aid in Getaway
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
April 8, 2021
Home
Press
Man Convicted of Escaping from Orange County Jail, Kidnapping Cab Driver to aid in Getaway
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 8, 2021
Case # 16CF0198
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Convicted of Escaping from Orange County Jail, Kidnapping Cab Driver to aid in Getaway
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The first of three inmates charged with carrying out an elaborate escape from the Orange County Men’s Central Jail along with two other inmates in 2016 has been convicted of the escape and kidnapping of a 72-year-old cab driver to help aid in the escape. The three escaped inmates were the targets of a statewide manhunt that lasted more than a week.
Bac Tien Duong, 48, was convicted by a jury of one felony count of escape by a prisoner and one felony count of kidnapping. The jury failed to reach a verdict on one felony count of taking of a vehicle.
He faces a maximum sentence of eight years and eight months in state prison. He is scheduled to be sentenced on May 14, 2021.
On January 22, 2016, Duong is accused of escaping from the Orange County Men’s Central Jail along with inmates Hossein Nayeri and Jonathan Tieu after spending several weeks cutting through jail vents in order to access the jail’s plumbing tunnels and climb up on the jail’s roof.
Duong and the other two inmates are accused of using jail sheets to rappel down the side of the jail. Later that day, Duong called an unlicensed taxi service he located in a Vietnamese-language periodical, and 72-year-old Long Ma arrived to drive the three escapees to various points in Orange County and Rosemead. At various points, Duong held the cab driver at gunpoint.
Over the next few days, the three escapees and the abducted cab driver drove to various locations around California, ending up in San Jose.
On January 29, 2016, Duong drove with Ma back to Southern California. Duong arranged to turn himself in at a Santa Ana auto shop and after dropping Duong off at the auto shop, Ma drove away.
Nayeri and Tieu were captured in San Francisco the next day after a man recognized the two escapees from media reports. Then -Orange County Supervisor Todd Spitzer presented Matthew Hay-Chapman with a $100,000 reward for providing the information that led to the capture of Nayeri and Tieu.
When he escaped, Duong was facing charges for attempted murder with a 25-life gun-use enhancement, assault with a firearm, first-degree burglary, and discharging a firearm at an inhabited dwelling. His trial is still pending on those charges.
Nayeri was sentenced in October to two consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole along with another seven years to life for kidnapping and torturing a marijuana dispensary owner. After the commission of those crimes in October of 2012, Nayeri fled to the country of Iran, before traveling to the Czech Republic where he was arrested and extradited to the United States.
Nayeri and Tieu are still awaiting trial on the jail escape.
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Assault
Bac Tien Duong
Hossein Nayeri
Jail Escape
Jonathan Tieu
Kidnapping
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Jail Escapee Convicted in “Unnecessary Trial”;  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Denounces California Governor Gavin Newsom, State Legislature for Reckless Law Changes to Roll Back Sentencing, Allowing Felons Ever-Evolving Options to be Released from Custody; Prosecutors tried convicted kidnapper already serving two consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole for escaping from jail as precaution to guard against potential future law changes that could change sentencing
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
