Driver with Two Prior DUI Convictions Charged with Murder of 13-Year-old Boy Killed While Walking to School in Dana Point - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Driver with Two Prior DUI Convictions Charged with Murder of 13-Year-old Boy Killed While Walking to School in Dana Point
Author
Chase Healy
Published
November 20, 2025
Home
Press
Driver with Two Prior DUI Convictions Charged with Murder of 13-Year-old Boy Killed While Walking to School in Dana Point
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 20, 2025
Case #: 25HF3125
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Driver with Two Prior DUI Convictions Charged with Murder of
13-Year-old Boy Killed While Walking to School in Dana Point
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A 59-year-old man with two prior driving under the influence convictions has been charged with murder for hitting and killing a 13-year-old boy in Dana Point on Tuesday morning as the sixth-grader was walking to school with his older brother.
Bradley Gene Funk, who is currently on probation for a 2021 driving under the influence and hit and run conviction, was arrested after witnesses helped deputies find him several blocks from where he hit the boy in his disabled pickup truck with one of his tires missing.
Funk, 59, of Dana Point, was charged with one felony count of murder and one felony count of hit and run with permanent and serious injury.
At about 8:20 a.m. on Tuesday, Funk is accused of hitting a curb near Dana Point Harbor Drive and Lantern and Park Lantern and hitting 13-year-old Luis Adrian Morales-Pacheco of San Juan Capistrano, who was walking to school with his older brother. His brother was not injured.
Funk is accused of failing to stop after hitting Morales-Pacheco and continuing driving until his pickup truck lost a tire and became disabled several blocks from the collision. Morales-Pacheco, who was on his way to Niguel Hills Middle School, died at the hospital.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. Funk pled guilty to driving under the influence of alcohol in two separate cases in 2021. He received the Watson advisement both times. The Steve Ambriz Act, authored by then-Assembly member Todd Spitzer, requires people applying for a California driver’s license to sign a form acknowledging that they can be charged with murder if they kill someone while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
“The death of a child leaves a hole in the heart of our entire community,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Luis did not have to die and the driver who killed him was told over and over again of the lives he would be risking if he got behind the wheel intoxicated, and he did it anyway. And now Luis’ family is forced to live without their little boy whose smile could light up a room – all because a stranger made a selfish decision and Luis and his entire family paid the ultimate price.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Casey Cunningham of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Bradley Gene Funk
Homicide
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
