REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS - PIMPING CONSPIRACY - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – PIMPING CONSPIRACY
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 22, 2007
Home
Press
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS – PIMPING CONSPIRACY
REMARKS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY TONY RACKAUCKAS
PIMPING CONSPIRACY
March 22, 2007
Good morning. Thank you for coming.
Standing here with me today are Captain Joe Reiss of the Anaheim Police Department and William J. Hayes, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of Investigation for The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Orange
County
. This large-scale effort would not have been possible without the cooperation of our local and federal law enforcement agencies, and I would like to thank them for their hard work. You’ll have an opportunity to hear from both of them in just a few minutes.
We also have with us today Deputy District Attorney Scott Steiner, who will be prosecuting this case,
Jim Amormino
, Public Information Officer,
Orange County Sheriff’s Department,
Sergeant Dave Hill
from the Orange Police Department, Craig Kilday, Chief Deputy for the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, and Ingrid Wyatt, Public Information Officer for the Riverside District Attorney. Each of these agencies, along with the Tustin Police Department, provided officers and resources for taking down the brothels in their neighborhoods, and we’re grateful for their commitment to continuing to protect our communities.
Four businesses and four houses were searched on Friday, March 16
th
This was a three year, multi-agency joint investigation
Major pimping conspiracy and brothel ring was taken down
Six people were arrested
Numerous bank accounts and safety deposit boxes were seized
Ten brothels, all owned and operated by the same group of people, have been identified and shut down,
We believe this is the largest pimping conspiracy to ever be taken down in
Orange
County
.
A conspiracy is when two people or more agree to commit a crime and then take steps to carry it out.
Even if each conspirator does not physically participate in each step of the crime, all conspirators are equally responsible.
In this case, five defendants have been charged for their various levels of involvement in this conspiracy, and a sixth has been charged for running a brothel. They are all pictured here.
Jian Shi is the ring leader.
He’s been charged with pimping and conspiracy to pimp. He owned, operated, or in some way ran all ten of the brothels at one time or another. He was the guy who called the shots, to whom the others reported, and who instructed the others in the conspiracy; how to run the criminal operation under the radar.
In a two month period, Shi’s credit card was used to buy 7, 500 square feet of Kirkland Plastic Food Wrap.
In just over two weeks, his card was used to buy 12 bottles of 24.5 ounce Vaseline lotion.
When one of the women, Mikey, was arrested in September 2006 for prostitution, Shi coached her on how to manipulate the judge.
He told her to act pitiful when she went to court and make the judge feel sorry for her. He told her to wear shabby clothes, and say she had been persecuted in
China
. He told her to tell the judge that she was only trying to make money.
Defendant Hong Jun Bai
was Shi’s right-hand guy.
He’s been charged with pimping and conspiracy to pimp. He moved money, arranged pick-ups and drop offs, and reported to Shi on the number of customers the brothels and prostitutes had on any given day.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
