Convicted Felon Charged with Sexually Assaulting 85-year-old Fellow Nursing Home Resident - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Convicted Felon Charged with Sexually Assaulting 85-year-old Fellow Nursing Home Resident
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
March 4, 2022
Home
Press
Convicted Felon Charged with Sexually Assaulting 85-year-old Fellow Nursing Home Resident
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 4, 2022
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A convicted felon living at a Seal Beach nursing home has been charged with sexually assaulting an 85-year-old woman suffering from dementia.
Louie Alonso Alberto, 52, of Seal Beach, has been charged with one felony count of sodomy of an incompetent person, and two felony counts of assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense. He faces a maximum sentence of seven years to life plus 10 years in state prison.
Alberto is scheduled to be arraigned on March 18, 2022 in CJ1. He is currently being held on $1 million bail.
Alberto was previously sentenced to prison for corporal injury on a spouse.
On March 1, 2022, at about 6:45 a.m., nurses at a skilled care nursing facility in Seal Beach responded to a female resident screaming. The nurses had to push through a wheelchair barricading the door to the woman’s room to find Alberto on top of the woman who was laying in her bed. Alberto is also accused of being found in the same woman’s room the day before.
Alberto was arrested by Seal Beach Police.
“Sadly we have seen an inordinate amount of our Seal Beach seniors become unfairly victimized by individuals who see them as easy targets,” said Seal Beach Chief of Police Philip L. Gonshak. “A health and rehabilitation facility should be a place where people go to rest and recover. They certainly should never have to worry about being victimized while they’re healing. Our Detectives are working closely with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office to ensure any individual, including this alleged suspect, who preys on those less able to defend themselves are swiftly brought to justice.”
“Abuse comes in many forms, but it is the vulnerable and the defenseless who are most often targeted because they aren’t able to protect themselves,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Our elderly should be cared for with compassion and their legacies and lives treasured, not brutally victimized. No one should suffer the trauma of being sexually assaulted, especially in a place that is intended to provide care for people with dignity and respect. I’ve directed my bureau to conduct an investigation into how a convicted felon was placed in a facility where dementia patients were being treated. We are reviewing state law and regulations to see who was responsible for placing that individual in an environment that allowed him access to vulnerable individuals.”
Deputy District Attorney Ann Fawaz of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
to view the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Elder Abuse
Louie Alonso Alberto
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
