Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy, Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy, Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos  Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025.
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 9, 2026
Home
Press
Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy, Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos  Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 9, 2026
Case #: 26NF1705
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Brea Olinda Unified School District Trustee Charged with Contacting a 15-year-old Boy and a 17-year-old boy,
Calling the Children “Sexy” and Asking Them to Send Him Photos
Brea Police Began Investigating After the 15-year-old Boy Reported the School Trustee’s Behavior to His Father in October 2025.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Brea Olinda Unified School Board trustee has been charged with contacting 15-year-old high school boy while the trustee was in Las Vegas and asking the boy to send him a photo and then trying to dissuade a witness.  The former school trustee is also charged with contacting a 17-year-old boy and asking him for a photo.
Christopher Gerard Becerra, 42, of Brea, has been charged with two felony counts of contacting a minor with intent to commit a specified offense, one misdemeanor count of annoying or molesting a person believed to be a child, one misdemeanor count of attempting to induce false testimony, and one misdemeanor count of annoying or molesting a child under 18 years of age.
He faces a maximum sentence of 1 year and 10 months in state prison plus two years and three months in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
In October 2025, the Brea Police Department began investigating allegations that Becerra, who was at the time an elected member of the Brea Olinda Unified School Board, was sending social media messages to a 15-year-old former student of the school district. The boy had since transferred out of the school district.
The boy alerted his father of the messages that asked the boy to send him a photo and called him “sexy,” even after he was told he was only 15 years old.
Becerra is accused of being in Las Vegas with a school district employee at the time he attempted to convince the 15-year-old boy to send him pictures and then calling the employee after he was interviewed by police to encourage her to say that he lost his phone during the Vegas trip.
Becerra is also accused of engaging in several text messages between October 2025 and November 2025 with a 17-year-old boy where he also asked for a photo and called him “sexy.”
Becerra was arrested by the Brea Police Department in December 2025 and his seat on the Brea Olinda Unified school board was declared vacant last month after Becerra failed to attend any board meetings since November 2025.
“The sexual exploitation of children will never be tolerated,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is unconscionable that someone elected to help administer the education of our children would prey on children for his own sexual gratification. I am grateful for the hard work of the Brea Police Department and for the bravery of a child who came forward to report this disgusting behavior and allow this predator to be held accountable for his actions.”
Deputy District Attorney Carly Kray of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Christopher Gerard Becerra
Sexual Assault Unit
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Possession of  Child Pornography, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Look up Romantic Rival, Ex-girlfriend, and Violating a Restraining Order Deputy was assigned to work at John Wayne Airport before he resigned while under investigation
Press
DJ who Performs at Children’s Parties Charged with Raping Teenage Girl  while she was Unconscious, Possession of Child Pornography and Drugs Authorities are asking for anyone with information about additional potential victims to contact the Los Alamitos Police Department
