Long Beach Man with Prior Kidnapping Conviction Charged with Multiple Human Trafficking Felonies After Tip Leads Human Trafficking Task Force to Rescue 17-year-old Victim at Anaheim Motel - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Long Beach Man with Prior Kidnapping Conviction Charged with Multiple Human Trafficking Felonies After Tip Leads Human Trafficking Task Force to Rescue 17-year-old Victim at Anaheim Motel
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 14, 2026
Home
Press
Long Beach Man with Prior Kidnapping Conviction Charged with Multiple Human Trafficking Felonies After Tip Leads Human Trafficking Task Force to Rescue 17-year-old Victim at Anaheim Motel
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 14, 2026
Case #: 26CF0196
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Long Beach Man with Prior Kidnapping Conviction Charged with Multiple
Human Trafficking Felonies After Tip
Leads Human Trafficking Task Force to Rescue 17-year-old Victim at
Anaheim Motel
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 33-year-old Long Beach man with a prior conviction for kidnapping has been charged with multiple sex trafficking felonies after he was arrested by the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force (OCHTTF) at an Anaheim motel with a teenage girl he was selling for sex.
On January 8, 2026, OCHTTF Investigators received a tip from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children regarding a 17-year-old girl who was possibly the victim of sex trafficking.  The task force immediately launched a human trafficking investigation and began searching for the girl.
Just hours later, OCHTTF Investigators found the teenage girl and her trafficker, 33-year-old Michael Terrell Armstrong of Long Beach, at an Anaheim motel. OCHTTF Investigators arrested Armstrong and provided victim services to the teenage girl.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office Human Exploitation and Trafficking Unit (HEAT) has charged Armstrong with one felony count of human trafficking of a minor, one felony count of pimping a minor over the age of 16 years, and one felony count of pandering with a minor over 16 years old. He faces a maximum sentence of 29 years in state prison if convicted on all charges. Prosecutors successfully argued for Armstrong to be kept in custody in lieu of $250,000 bond.
“The faces of human trafficking are unbelievably the faces of children, the most vulnerable victims who are being exploited by some of the most diabolical predators that exist. Our children are not for sale here in Orange County – or anywhere,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Through our collaborative efforts, the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force continues to be a beacon of hope for victims that help is on the way and that we will be unrelenting in our efforts to rescue each and every victim of human trafficking – and to punish their traffickers with the full force of the law.”
This investigation illustrates the commitment of the OCHTTF and its partnering agencies in locating and identifying victims of pimping or human trafficking.  The Anaheim Police Department and Waymakers co-chair the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force.  The lead agencies for the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force also includes the California Highway Patrol, Garden Grove Police Department, Irvine Police Department, Santa Ana Police Department, California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, Orange County Probation Department, Orange County Social Services Agency, U.S. Attorney’s Office, and U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  For more information about the OCHTTF, visit https://www.ochumantrafficking.com.
A critical component of the OCHTTF is the OCDA’s HEAT Unit, which targets perpetrators who sexually exploit and traffic women and underage girls for financial gain, including pimps, panderers, and human traffickers.  The HEAT Unit uses a tactical plan called PERP: Prosecution, to bring justice for victims of human trafficking and hold perpetrators responsible using Prop 35; Education, to provide law enforcement training to properly handle human trafficking and pandering cases; Resources from public-private partnerships to raise public awareness about human trafficking and provide assistance to the victims; and Publicity, to inform the public and send a message to human traffickers that this crime cannot be perpetrated without suffering severe consequences.
If you, or anyone you know has been a victim of human trafficking, contact the National Human Trafficking Resource Center Hotline at (888) 373-7888 or contact your local law enforcement department.
Deputy District Attorney Steven Bunn of the Human Exploitation and Trafficking Unit (HEAT) is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Human Exploitation and Trafficking Unit (HEAT)
Human Trafficking
Michael Terrell Armstrong
Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Multi-agency ‘Operation Red Zone’ results in 56 human trafficking arrests
Press
Woman, Man Convicted of Human Trafficking, Pimping
Press
OCDA PROSECUTORS BRADLEY SCHOENLEBEN AND DANIEL VARON RECEIVE “PROSECUTOR OF THE YEAR” AWARD
