Costa Mesa Man Charged with Murdering His Girlfriend Over Argument After Drinking, Throwing Her Body in a Trashcan - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Costa Mesa Man Charged with Murdering His Girlfriend Over Argument After Drinking, Throwing Her Body in a Trashcan
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
October 28, 2024
Home
Press
Costa Mesa Man Charged with Murdering His Girlfriend Over Argument After Drinking, Throwing Her Body in a Trashcan
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 28, 2024
Case #: 24WF3042
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Costa Mesa Man Charged with Murdering His Girlfriend Over Argument After Drinking, Throwing Her Body in a Trashcan
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Costa Mesa man has been charged with murder for strangling his girlfriend to death and slitting her wrist and then leaving her body in a trashcan at his home after an argument following a night of drinking.
Daniel Allen Aldrich, 49, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of the personal use of a weapon in the death of 38-year-old Julie Anne Sanetra whose body was found by landscapers hired to mow the property’s lawn.
Aldrich faces a maximum sentence of 26 years to life if convicted on all charges. He is scheduled to be arraigned on November 19, 2024 at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Westminster in Department W12. He is currently being held in lieu of $1 million bail.
On Sunday, October 20, 2024, Aldrich is accused of strangling Sanetra after the couple got into an argument and then slitting her wrist with a folding knife.  Aldrich is accused of leaving Sanetra’s body on the couch while he watched television before going to bed.
The next day, Aldrich is accused of dragging Sanetra’s body outside and stuffing her body inside of a trashcan, on the side of the house. Aldrich is accused of going back inside, packing a bag, and then driving to his mother’s home in Glendale.
On Tuesday, landscapers called the Costa Mesa Police Department after they discovered Sanetra’s body partially outside of the trashcan when they arrived at the residence to mow the lawn. Aldrich was arrested at his mother’s Glendale home by Costa Mesa police.
“Julie Sanetra did not deserve to be strangled and stuffed into a trashcan like a piece of garbage,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The callousness of this crime shocks the conscience, and we will do everything to get justice for Julie and her loved ones.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Nick Thomo of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Daniel Allen Aldrich
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 7 =
