28-year-old Man Repeatedly Warned about the Dangers of Speeding Convicted of Second-Degree Murder Defendant was driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph when he hit a 33-year-old woman turning left; victim died from her injuries a month later - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
28-year-old Man Repeatedly Warned about the Dangers of Speeding Convicted of Second-Degree Murder Defendant was driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph when he hit a 33-year-old woman turning left; victim died from her injuries a month later
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
November 14, 2022
Home
Press
28-year-old Man Repeatedly Warned about the Dangers of Speeding Convicted of Second-Degree Murder Defendant was driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph when he hit a 33-year-old woman turning left; victim died from her injuries a month later
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 14, 2022
Case #: 18HF1302
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
28-year-old Man Repeatedly Warned about the Dangers of Speeding Convicted of Second-Degree Murder
Defendant was driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph when
he hit a 33-year-old woman turning left;
victim died from her injuries a month later
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old man who had been repeatedly warned of the dangers of speeding was convicted today of second-degree murder for hitting and killing a 33-year-old woman while driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph.
Afiff Kevin Doaifi, 28, of Mission Viejo was immediately taken into custody after being convicted. Doaifi had been out of custody after posting a $1 million bond on September 27, 2018.
Doaifi faces a maximum sentence of 15 years to life in state prison. He is scheduled to be sentenced on December 13, 2022 at the Central Justice Center in Department C 45.
Just before midnight on Saturday, March 25, 2017, Doaifi was driving his Camaro eastbound on Alicia Parkway in Mission Viejo when witnesses watched him gun his engine from Muirlands as he travelled up the hill of Alicia Parkway to make it through the intersection before the light turned red.
Thirty-three-year old Judith Noval, of Mission Viejo, was turning left onto Althea Avenue from westbound on Alicia Parkway in her Hyundai Elantra when Doaifi’s speeding Camaro hit her. The event-data recorder in the Doaifi’s  Camaro recorded he was driving 99 mph just 2 ½ seconds before he collided with Noval’s Hyundai.
Following the collision, Doaifi was recorded on a 911 dispatch call complaining about the damage to his Camaro. According to witnesses he never asked about the well-being of the woman he hit.
Noval passed away as a result of her injuries a month following the collision.
Doaifi was cited for speeding on five different occasions, including for driving 109 mph on a freeway in October 2014. In a court trial for driving 109 mph, Doaifi told the judge “I was wrong and it was dangerous” and “this is a wakeup call.”
“This individual showed over and over again he has complete disregard for human life,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “He didn’t care how many speeding tickets he racked up, he kept speeding. He wasn’t going to stop until he killed someone, and he finally did when he killed Judith. And even after he crashed into her car and left an innocent young woman fighting for her life, he didn’t rush to help her or even bother to ask if she was ok. All he cared about was the damage to his car.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Afiff Kevin Doaifi
Second-Degree Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
28-year-old Man Repeatedly Warned about the Dangers of Speeding Sentenced to 15 years to Life for Hitting, Killing 33 year old Woman - Defendant was driving his Camaro nearly 100 mph at the time of the collision; victim died from her injuries a month later
Press
Previously Convicted White Supremacist Gang Member Found Guilty of Stabbing 22-year-old to Death
