Former Irvine City Councilmember Tammy Kim Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying about Her Residency while Serving on City Council, Running for Mayor - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Former Irvine City Councilmember Tammy Kim Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying about Her Residency while Serving on City Council, Running for Mayor
Author
Chase Healy
Published
May 22, 2025
Home
Press
Former Irvine City Councilmember Tammy Kim Charged with Multiple Felonies for Lying about Her Residency while Serving on City Council, Running for Mayor
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 22, 2025
Case # 25HF1196
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Irvine City Councilmember Tammy Kim Charged
with Multiple Felonies for Lying about Her Residency
while Serving on City Council, Running for Mayor
Perjury Convictions Would Result in a Lifetime Ban from Public Office
Former Irvine City Councilmember Tammy Kim has been charged with multiple felonies, including perjury, for lying about her residency in 2024 while she was serving on the City Council and campaigning as a candidate for mayor. If convicted of felony perjury, the former councilmember would be banned for life from holding public office.
Kim has been charged with three felony counts of perjury by declaration, three felony counts of filing a false document, one felony count of a public official aiding the illegal casting of votes, one felony count of filing false nomination papers, one felony count of knowing registration of someone not entitled to vote, one felony count of voter registration fraud, and one misdemeanor count of making a false statement.
She faces a maximum sentence of 10 years and eight months in state prison and six months in county jail if convicted on all counts.
Kim is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday, May 23, 2025 at the Harbor Justice Center in Newport Beach in Department H1.
Kim served on the Irvine City Council from 2020 to 2024. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office was alerted to Kim’s potential residency issues from an Irvine resident.
In May 2024, Kim is accused of changing both her California driver’s license and voter registration to the address of a home on Alaris Aisle, an address at which she had never lived. She is accused of certifying this information under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California.
Councilmember Kim, who was running for Irvine mayor, voted in the November 5, 2024, election in Irvine’s City Council District 5. She was a seated councilmember at the time and did not live in District 5 despite casting her vote in that District’s election. Voters must live in the district in which elections they vote.
Councilmember Kim lost her bid for Irvine mayor in the November 4, 2024 election.
In December 2024, Kim filed nomination papers to run for a City Council seat in District 5 using the Alaris Aisle address despite her actual residence being located in District 3. The occupants of the Alaris address included a man she met through a Korean teaching class, his wife, and their two children.  Kim is accused of using the Alaris address on official documents without the family’s knowledge.
On January 10, 2025, Kim is accused of putting a $400 deposit on a room for rent at a home on Willowrun, which is located in District 5, after answering a Craigslist ad. She is accused of changing her California driver’s registration to that address that same day. A week later Kim is accused of filing new nomination paperwork reflecting the Willowrun address in District 5.
In January 2025, the Orange County Registrar of Voters received a Petition for Writ of Mandate and Injunctive Relief that was filed on behalf of an Irvine resident seeking a court order directing the Registrar of Voters to void and cancel Kim’s registration to vote in the City of Irvine Council District 5, to issue a writ compelling the Registrar to remove Kim as a candidate from the ballot for the City of Irvine Council District 5 position for the April 15, 2025, Special Election, and award costs and attorney’s fees associated with the court action.
On February 7, 2025, an Orange County Superior Court judge granted the petition, and ordered the Registrar of Voters to remove Kim’s name from the ballot prior to the April 15, 2025, Special Election.
Betty Martinez Franco won the special election, beating out former councilmember Anthony Kuo and HOA Board Member Dana Cornelius, to represent Irvine’s City Council District 5.
Click here
for the Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Special Prosecutions
Tammy Kim
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
