Man Charged with Sexually Assaulting Chapman University Student on Campus - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Man Charged with Sexually Assaulting Chapman University Student on Campus
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 30, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Sexually Assaulting Chapman University Student on Campus
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 30, 2021
Case # 21CF2833
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA — A 22-year-old man has been charged with sexually assaulting an 18-year-old Chapman University freshman outside of her dormitory early Friday morning.
Dalante Jerome Bell, 22, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of assault with intent to commit a sex offense and sexual penetration by a foreign object.
Bell faces a maximum of sentence of eight years in state prison if convicted on all charges. He is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $500,000.
Around midnight on September 23, 2021, Bell is accused of wearing a mask and attacking an 18-year-old student who was video chatting with her boyfriend. The woman fought back against her attacker, who fled the scene as people came to help the victim.
Numerous surveillance cameras captured the attacker leaving the scene.
Bell was arrested by the Orange Police Department after his parents watched news coverage of the attack and recognized their son as a person of interest
“College students should be focused on learning, not worrying about being sexually assaulted by someone lurking in the shadows outside of their dorm,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This brave woman did what she could to fight back and call for help. Thankfully this individual was quickly arrested and is no longer able to prey on unsuspecting college students. And now the Orange County District Attorney’s Office will do everything it can to ensure this sexual predator is held accountable.”
Deputy District Attorney Austin Neiman of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Dalante Jerome Bell
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
