Woman Pleads Guilty to Posting Nazi Propaganda at Newport Harbor High and Fullerton College - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Woman Pleads Guilty to Posting Nazi Propaganda at Newport Harbor High and Fullerton College
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 11, 2020
Home
Press
Woman Pleads Guilty to Posting Nazi Propaganda at Newport Harbor High and Fullerton College
Case # 19HM04927
Woman Pleads Guilty to Posting Nazi Propaganda at Newport Harbor High and Fullerton College
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 23-year-old Fullerton woman pleaded guilty today to one count of misdemeanor vandalism and two misdemeanor counts of graffiti for posting Nazi propaganda posters at Newport Harbor High School and Fullerton College.
Grace Elisabeth Ziesmer, 23, of Fullerton, agreed to plead guilty in exchange for a court offer of 40 hours community service and one year informal probation. Ziesmer was ordered to pay $517.12 in restitution.
On March 4, 2019, Ziesmer posted Nazi propaganda posters on city light poles near Fullerton College. Ziesmer is also accused of posting Nazi propaganda posters on Newport Harbor High School’s property on March 11, 2019.
The posting of Nazi propaganda which included swastikas, SS mottos, and other neo-Nazi statements is a hate incident.
“Expressing hatred towards any particular group will never be tolerated in Orange County,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Vandalizing a school or any place with propaganda spreads a violent message to students and residents and does not belong in Orange County.”
Ziesmer was not charged with a hate crimes enhancement due to a lack of sufficient evidence that her contact was directed at a particular victim for being Jewish. It could not be proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant’s conduct was directed at the schools because of their connection with the Jewish people or the Jewish religion, based on the evidence and interviews conducted in the case.
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of the Special Prosecutions unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Grace Elisabeth Ziesmer
Graffiti
Hate Crime
Nazi
Vandalism
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
