Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
Author
Chase Healy
Published
November 19, 2025
Home
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 19, 2025
Case #: 23WF1194
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old
Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A 60-year-old man accused of grooming women to babysit children as young as four years old and bring them to hotels so that he could molest them has been convicted of molesting two young children and arranging for a four-year-old child to be brought to an Orange County motel for the child to be drugged and sexually assaulted.  The woman he thought he was communicating with turned out to be a Huntington Beach police detective. The sexual offenses on young children are suspected to have occurred over several decades.
Jason Valentine Esparza, 60, was convicted last week of five felony counts of oral copulation of a child 10 years old or younger, three felony counts of contacting a minor with the intent to commit a specific offense, two felony counts of attempted forcible lewd act on a child under 14, and three felony counts of attempted oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 years old or younger. He faces a maximum sentence of 75 years to life plus an additional 18 years and 8 months in state prison.
He is scheduled to be sentenced February 27, 2026, in Department C12 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana.
The Huntington Beach Police Department (HBPD) began investigating Esparza after receiving an anonymous cyber-tip from the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) program in September 2022.
During the eight-month investigation, HBPD Crimes Against Persons Unit detectives began communicating with Esparza while posing as an adult female who was babysitting a four-year-old girl.  During those communications, Esparza is accused of expressing his desire to perform very specific sexual acts on the child, and he employed tactics that were later learned to be consistent with how a 2006 five-year-old victim was sexually assaulted.
On April 7, 2023, Esparza was told that the child was at a Huntington Beach hotel room, and he was arrested by undercover detectives when he entered the room.  Subsequent investigation located child victims spanning decades in both Los Angeles County and Orange County.
“Someone who preys on the innocence of children for their own sexual gratification is the embodiment of evil,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are grateful for the incredible work by the Huntington Beach Police Department and Deputy District Attorney Devin Crowley, and for their unwavering dedication to ensuring justice – for these young victims and all victims of pedophiles. We must continue to do the work to protect the most vulnerable of victims – our children.”
Deputy District Attorney Devin Crowley of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Jason Valentine Esparza
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church
