Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen Introduces AB 2727 to Reform Elderly Parole Eligibility for Violent Sexual Offenses - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen Introduces AB 2727 to Reform Elderly Parole Eligibility for Violent Sexual Offenses
Author
Justin Yun
Published
March 13, 2026
Home
Press
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen Introduces AB 2727 to Reform Elderly Parole Eligibility for Violent Sexual Offenses
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 12, 2026
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen Introduces
AB 2727 to Reform Elderly Parole Eligibility for Violent Sexual Offenses
Sacramento, CA — Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen has introduced AB 2727, co-sponsored by the Sacramento County District Attorney’s Office and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, to reform California’s elderly parole program following recent cases that have raised concerns about how the law applies to individuals convicted of violent sexual offenses against children.
AB 2727 permanently excludes individuals convicted of the most serious sexual offenses from eligibility for elderly parole, including:
• Aggravated sexual assault of a child
• Forcible lewd acts on a child
• Sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger
• One Strike sexual offenses involving multiple victims
For other aggravated sexual offenses, the bill establishes a higher eligibility threshold so parole may only be considered if an individual is at least 75 years old and has served a minimum of 30 years in prison. Under current law, incarcerated individuals may qualify for elderly parole after reaching 50 years of age and serving 20 years.
“When someone commits violent sexual crimes, especially against children, the consequences must reflect the seriousness of that harm,” said Assemblymember Stephanie Nguyen. “AB 2727 ensures that individuals convicted of the most serious sexual offenses are not eligible for elderly parole and that others face a much higher threshold before they can be considered for release.”
“I refuse to accept a reality in which the heinousness of the crime no longer matters, and the victims no longer matter,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Not every crime and not every criminal is the same and we cannot continue to allow our criminal justice system to be a one-size-fits-all system that erases accountability and ignores the victims.”
“Recent changes to elder parole laws break our promise to victims and endanger our most vulnerable—our children,” said Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho. “AB 2727 is an important step toward preventing dangerous inmates from receiving unearned and undeserved early prison release -our community deserves better.”
AB 2727 will be considered during the 2026 legislative session.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
AB 2727
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
