Seeking Additional Witnesses: Man Arrested for Newport Beach Cold Case - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Seeking Additional Witnesses: Man Arrested for Newport Beach Cold Case
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 21, 2019
Home
Press
Seeking Additional Witnesses: Man Arrested for Newport Beach Cold Case
Case # 19HF0192
Arrested: James Alan Neal, AKA James Albert Layton, Jr.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the Newport Beach Police Department are releasing a vintage photo of James Alan Neal, also known as James Albert Layton, Jr., to seek potential additional witnesses who may have seen Mr. Neal at or around the time of the murder. The Newport Beach Police Department asks that anyone who has further information concerning this investigation to call the NBPD Cold Case Tip Line at 949-644-3669.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office along with the Newport Beach Police Department announced at a joint press conference on Feb. 20, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. that James Alan Neal was identified as the suspect in the abduction, sexual molestation, and murder of 11 year-old Linda Ann O’Keefe after a tireless and exhaustive investigation that lasted for more than 45 years.
As mentioned at the press conference, Newport Beach Police Department detectives broke the case through genetic genealogy techniques after receiving an investigatory lead from FamilyTreeDNA’s Gene-by-Gene, LTD. laboratory of Houston, Texas with further assistance from genetic genealogist Cece Moore of Parabon NanoLabs, Inc. of Reston, Virginia.
At the time of the murder, James Alan Neal was known as James Albert Layton, Jr., not James Alan George Layton as previously reported. A vintage photo of Mr. Neal that may depict what he looked like at the time of the murder is being included with this press release. The exact date of this photo is unknown, however it was likely taken during the time period of the late 1970’s to the early 1980’s.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and the Newport Beach Police Department would like to once again thank our law enforcement partners the Orange County Crime Lab, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Colorado Springs Police Department, and El Paso County Sheriff’s Department for their assistance and commitment to this investigation.
Tagged with:
Abduction
Cold Case
James Alan Neal
James Albert Layton Jr
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Murder
Sexual Assault
Sexual Molestation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
