Third Striker Charged with Attacking Police Officer Days After Appointed Commissioner Releases Him on Own Recognizance - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Third Striker Charged with Attacking Police Officer Days After Appointed Commissioner Releases Him on Own Recognizance
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 29, 2020
Home
Press
Third Striker Charged with Attacking Police Officer Days After Appointed Commissioner Releases Him on Own Recognizance
Convicted felon had been released from jail three times in two weeks leading up to attack
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A third strike convicted felon has been charged with multiple felonies for attacking an Irvine police officer while burglarizing a business just days after he was released from the Orange County jail on his own recognizance by an appointed court commissioner.
Russell Paul Parsons, 39, of Los Angeles, was released from jail on April 14, 2020 after Orange County Court Commissioner Joseph Dane ordered him released on his own recognizance after Parsons pleaded not guilty to one felony count of 2nd degree burglary and one felony count of felony theft with prior theft of a vehicle.
At that time, Parsons had appeared before Commissioner Dane three times since April 8, 2020 to plead not guilty to a total of seven felonies in connection with three separate burglary and theft cases.
Five days later, on April 19, 2020, Parsons attacked an Irvine Police Officer who was attempting to arrest Parsons for another 2nd degree burglary at a commercial business. The officer was responding to a silent alarm where he encountered a man later identified as Parsons coming out of the business with property. The officer was forced to use a taser to subdue the 6’ 2” 250 lb Parsons in order to arrest him. A sharpened axe head and a combat style knife were recovered.
“We cannot let a global pandemic defy common sense,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is not the court’s responsibility to manage the jail population by letting these career criminals out the front door of our jails and back into our neighborhoods. This officer had to fight for his life against a dangerous criminal who should have been behind bars and not free to commit more crimes. Thank goodness this officer wasn’t seriously hurt or killed by a criminal who shouldn’t have even been let out.”
In connection with the April 19 attack, Parsons has been charged with one felony count of 2nd degree burglary, one felony count of receiving stolen property, one felony count of resisting an executive officer, one felony count of felony vandalism, and one misdemeanor count of being in a place where there are controlled substances.
Parsons is now facing a total of 13 felonies and two misdemeanors in connection with burglaries that occurred on March 29, March 31, April 2, and April 19, 2020 as well as an April 4, 2020 theft case.
Parsons is currently being held on $250,000 bail at the Orange County Jail.
Tagged with:
resisting an executive officer
Russell Paul Parsons
Second-degree Burglary
Stolen Property
Vandalism
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Deceased Woman’s Credit Cards in Attempt to Buy Thousands of Dollars in Automotive Parts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
