Two Men Facing Maximum Sentence of Life in Prison for Shooting up Anaheim Strip Club after Being Kicked Out for Masks - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Two Men Facing Maximum Sentence of Life in Prison for Shooting up Anaheim Strip Club after Being Kicked Out for Masks
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 21, 2020
Home
Press
Two Men Facing Maximum Sentence of Life in Prison for Shooting up Anaheim Strip Club after Being Kicked Out for Masks
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 21, 2020
Case #: 20NF3439
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Two Men Facing Maximum Sentence of Life in Prison
for Shooting up Anaheim Strip Club after Being
Kicked Out for Failing to Wear Face Masks
Three people were shot during the drive-by shooting with an AK-47; a third patron is facing assault with a deadly weapon charges in connection with the attack
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Two men are facing a maximum sentence of life in state prison for shooting into an Anaheim strip club with an AK-47 on Halloween after they were physically removed from the club for failing to wear face masks. A third man has been charged in connection with the drive-by shooting.
Edgar Nava-Ayala, 34, of Anaheim has been charged with three felony counts of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, three felony counts of assault with an assault weapon, and one felony count of shooting into an occupied building. He has also been charged with seven felony enhancements of personal use of an assault weapon and three felony enhancements of causing great bodily injury. He faces a maximum sentence of 82 years to life in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Daniel Juvenal Ocampo, 22, of Anaheim, has been charged with three felony counts of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, three felony counts of assault with an assault weapon, and one felony count of shooting into an occupied building. He has also been charged with seven felony enhancements of supplying a firearm for the commission of a felony. Ocampo faces a maximum sentence of 21 years to life in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Juan Jose Acosta-Soto, 20, of Anaheim, has been charged with three felony counts of assault with an assault weapon and one felony count of shooting into an occupied building. He faces a maximum sentence of 17 years and four months in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Nava-Ayala, Ocampo, and Acosta-Soto were at the Sahara Theater on October 31, 2020. Ocampo and Nava-Ayala were escorted out of the club because they refused to wear face coverings. Ocampo, Nava-Ayala, and Acosta-Soto are accused of leaving and driving back to the club with a loaded Ak-47. Nava is accused of shooting at least 15 rounds into the business, injuring two employees and a customer.
All three sustained gunshot wounds to the upper body. One person had to undergo surgery and another suffered a shattered left scapula.
Nava-Ayala, Ocampo, and Acosta-Soto were arrested by the Anaheim Police Department on December 17, 2020. All three have entered not guilty pleas. They are currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $5 million bail each.
Deputy District Attorney Frank Acosta of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
AK-47
Assault with Firearm
Attempted Murder
Daniel Juvenal Ocampo
Drive by Shooting
Edgar Nava-Ayala
Firearm
Juan Jose Acosta-Soto
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
Huntington Beach Personal Trainer Sentenced to Two Consecutive Life Sentences Without the Possibility of Parole plus 54 years to Life for Executing Man and Woman in Newport Beach Condo Defendant was targeting male rivals he thought were having romantic relationships with his ex-girlfriend; defense argued woman was killed because defendant mistakenly believed a blonde woman was his girlfriend in bed with another man
