Media Advisory - OC GRIP Ford Reveal Event - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Media Advisory
Press
3 min read
Media Advisory – OC GRIP Ford Reveal Event
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 28, 2019
Home
Press
Media Advisory
Media Advisory – OC GRIP Ford Reveal Event
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO:
Orange County Gang Reduction Intervention Partnership (OC GRIP)
WHAT:
Will recognize the accomplishment of a Glen Yermo Elementary School student, of the Saddleback Valley Unified School District, whose design was selected from 130entries to be reproduced on the official OC GRIP vehicle.
OC GRIP is a partnership between the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, the Orange County Probation Department, local law enforcement, the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, Waymakers and community partners working together to keep kids out of gangs. OC GRIP provides education and resources to families throughout Orange County, including exposure to positive role models and mentoring by members of the community, including employees of Ford Motor Company, who volunteer their time to mentor at-risk youth.
This year, 66 Ford Motor Company employees participated in the mentor program. The mentor groups meet with students once a month for three months during the school year. Students who participate in the program and meet a challenge to attend school every day/on time, have a positive attitude, and improve academics, earned the opportunity to spend a day with their mentors at the Ford Motor Company Regional Headquarters in Irvine, where they experienced first-hand the opportunities available to them in the future.
This year, students in the program were challenged to create a custom design to be reproduced on the OC GRIP promotional vehicle. More than 130 students created designs with the guidance of their mentors. A design team from Ford selected the winning design, which was reproduced on the OC GRIP vehicle.
The fully customized vehicle will be on display and the Ford Motor Company employee team who volunteered as mentors at Glen Yermo Elementary will also be recognized for their service.
WHEN:
Friday, March 29, 2019, at 8:30 a.m.
WHERE:
Glen Yermo Elementary School, 26400 Trabuco Rd, Mission Viejo, CA 92691
Tagged with:
OC GRIP
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution
Media Advisory
Press
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
Press
OC GRIP Hosts Gang Prevention Training for School Employees
