Orange County Fire Authority Heavy Fire Equipment Operator Charged With Felony Animal Cruelty - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Orange County Fire Authority Heavy Fire Equipment Operator Charged With Felony Animal Cruelty
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
November 21, 2019
Home
Press
Orange County Fire Authority Heavy Fire Equipment Operator Charged With Felony Animal Cruelty
Case #19HF1596
Orange County Fire Authority Heavy Fire Equipment Operator Charged With Felony Animal Cruelty
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Fire Authority heavy fire equipment operator has been charged with felony animal cruelty for shooting his dog to death and disposing of the animal’s body in a dumpster in his fire station in Irvine.
Ryan John Monteleone, 44, of Menifee, was arrested by Irvine police on October 17, 2019 in the City of Irvine. Monteleone is a sworn member of the Orange County Fire Authority which provides fire service to the City of Irvine.
On August 9, 2019 a Waste Management trash truck driver discovered the body of the dead dog inside a dumpster at an OCFA fire station on Fossil Road in Irvine. A subsequent investigation revealed the dog had been shot in the head.
Monteleone has been charged with one felony count of cruelty to animals and one misdemeanor count of putting a carcass of a dead animal on the road. He faces a maximum of three years and six months if convicted of all charges.
Monteleone is scheduled to be arraigned on December 2, 2019 at the Harbor Justice Center in Department H1 at 8:30 a.m.
“Animals do not have the ability to call for help when they are being abused, making them especially vulnerable to violence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The abuse of animals will never be acceptable; this kind of conduct is even more egregious when the abuse is carried out by a public servant whose entire career is devoted to helping others.”
Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Malone is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Animal Cruelty
Ryan John Monteleone
Shooting
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Felony Animal Cruelty Suspect Surrender - Dog Recovered
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
