MEDIA ADVISORY: Press Conference To Announce Take Down of Burglary Ring Netting $2 Million - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Media Advisory
Press
2 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY: Press Conference To Announce Take Down of Burglary Ring Netting $2 Million
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 15, 2020
Home
Press
Media Advisory
MEDIA ADVISORY: Press Conference To Announce Take Down of Burglary Ring Netting $2 Million
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO
:   Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Assistant Sheriff Jeff Hallock, Fullerton Police Chief Bob Dunn, Anaheim Police Chief Jorge Cisneros, Buena Park Police Chief Corey Sianez, and a representative of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.
WHAT
: The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will hold a joint press conference with the Fullerton Police Department, the Anaheim Police Department, the Buena Park Police Department, the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms to discuss the takedown of a burglary ring responsible for stealing nearly $2 million in cash, jewelry, and guns in at least 44 residential burglaries in Orange and San Bernardino counties. In four cases, the victims were home and scared off the intruders. This is an ongoing investigation.
WHEN
:
Monday, May 18, 2020 at 11 a.m.
Doors will open at 10:30 a.m.
WHERE
: Orange County District Attorney’s Office, 401 Civic Center Drive W., Santa Ana, CA 92701, first floor Law Library
A pool camera will be available for broadcast media. The press conference will also be live streamed on Facebook – facebook.com/ocdatoddspitzer
A media call-in line is available for credentialed media and will be provided upon request to
media@da.ocgov.com
. Reporters are encouraged to call in at 10:50 a.m. to receive instructions on asking questions from the conference line moderator.
Members of the media can attend in person. Social distancing will be in place.
Tagged with:
Alvaro Ramos
Erick Daniel Soria
Eugene Yi
Jurandir Endnilson Penate
Press conference
Residential Burglary
Sergio Soto
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Fourth Defendant in $1.9 Million Multi-County Residential Burglary Ring Sentenced to 61 Years to Life; Ordered to Pay $1.2 Million in Restitution Third-striker recaptured in Mexico after he skipped out on a combined  $1.2 million bond while awaiting trial in connection with  44 residential burglaries in Orange County and San Bernardino counties  that targeted designer watches and purses, jewelry, guns, and cash.
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Orange County Law Enforcement Officials to Hold Press Conference on Residential and Commercial Burglary Eradication Efforts
