Man Who was Driving with Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter after 5-year-old Boy Dies a Week after Hit-and-Run Crash - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Man Who was Driving with Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter after 5-year-old Boy Dies a Week after Hit-and-Run Crash
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
July 17, 2024
Home
Press
Man Who was Driving with Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter after 5-year-old Boy Dies a Week after Hit-and-Run Crash
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: July 17, 2024
Case #: 24WF1884
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Who was Driving with Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Charged with Vehicular Manslaughter after 5-year-old Boy Dies a Week after Hit-and-Run Crash
that Critically Injured His Father, 6-Year-old Sister
Boy’s mother and 7-month-old sister also suffered minor injuries
after being hit while on a family bike ride in Garden Grove.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has upgraded charges against a man accused of having a blood alcohol content nearly three times the legal limit when he ran into a young family out on a bike ride, critically injuring a 5-year-old boy, his 6-year-old sister and their father. Five-year-old Jacob died a week after being hit by the intoxicated driver while on a bike ride with his parents and two young sisters in Garden Grove. The boy’s father remains in a coma after suffering a fractured skull and bleeding on the brain.
A driver who witnessed the crash followed the driver after he drove away until police stopped him.
Ceferino Ascencion Ramos, 29, of Santa Ana, was charged today with one felony count of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence while intoxicated for killing 5-year-old Jacob who was riding in a bike trailer with his 6-year-old sister being pulled by his dad’s bike.
Ramos is also facing one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing bodily injury, one felony count of driving with blood alcohol of .08% or more causing bodily injury, and one felony count of hit and run with injury.
Ramos has also been in charged with two felony enhancements for causing brain injury and paralysis and one felony enhancement of great bodily injury. He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years and four months if convicted on all charges.
On Sunday, July 7, 2024, Angel Ramirez and Angela Hernandez-Mejia were riding e-bikes with their three young children just after 7 p.m. in Garden Grove on Haster near Twintree Lane. Angela was in front with the couple’s 7-month-old daughter being pulled behind in a bike trailer and Angel was pulling a trailer with their 5-year-old son Jacob and 6-year-old daughter inside.
A witness saw the family riding on the right side of the road as Ramos drove into all five members of the family before he drove away. The witness called police and followed Ramos until police could catch up to them and arrest him. Ramos had a blood alcohol content of .22 nearly three times the legal limit of .08.
Jacob remained in a coma without any brain activity until being removed from life support a week after the crash. Angel remains in a coma after he suffered a fractured skull and a brain bleed. The couple’s oldest daughter has been released from the hospital after undergoing surgery for her injuries.  The little girl turned seven years old the day after the collision. Angela and the couple’s 7-month-old suffered minor injuries.
“A five-year-old boy’s summer days should be spent playing outside, telling silly jokes, laughing and being loud because that’s what little boys do, not laying in a hospital bed hooked up to a machine fighting for their life because someone decided the next beer was more important than Jacob,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.  “This is a crime that should have never happened, and it is something that this family will never recover from.  Jacob is so much more than another drunk driving statistic, but as a result of the selfish decision of a stranger to get behind the wheel while intoxicated, five-year-old Jacob has become another casualty of a crime that is completely preventable.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Devin Campbell of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Ceferino Ascencion Ramos
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit Sentenced to 16 Years, 4 Months for Crashing into Family of Five, Killing 5-old-Boy, Critically injuring His Father and 6-year-old Sister
Press
Man who was Driving Blood Alcohol Content Nearly Three Times Legal Limit has been Charged with DUI, Hit and Run in Crash that Critically Injured Father, Two Young Children
