LAW ENFORCEMENT NETS 15 MINORS IN 7TH OC GRIP CURFEW SWEEP - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
LAW ENFORCEMENT NETS 15 MINORS  IN 7TH OC GRIP CURFEW SWEEP
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 28, 2017
Home
Press
LAW ENFORCEMENT NETS 15 MINORS  IN 7TH OC GRIP CURFEW SWEEP
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 28, 2017
Contact:
Office:
Cell:
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
714-347-8408
714-292-2718
Michelle Van Der Linden
Spokesperson
714-347-8405
714-323-4486
LAW ENFORCEMENT NETS 15 MINORS IN 7
TH
OC GRIP CURFEW SWEEP
ORANGE COUNTY, Calif. – Orange County Gang Reduction and Intervention Partnership (OC GRIP) partnered with 13 law enforcement agencies to conduct a curfew sweep in the county. Last night, 130 officers patrolled the cities and unincorporated areas of Orange County and detained 15 minors who were out past curfew and in violation of city laws. This annual event is hosted by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA), organized by OC GRIP, and works to heighten parental awareness and prevent local youth from joining or participating in gang activity.
The 15 minors were taken by police car to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) until their parents arrived and picked them up. Before releasing the youths, OCDA and OC GRIP representatives and officers met with the detained minors’ parents and discuss the dangers and legal consequences involved for those who violate curfew. Legal ramifications could include misdemeanor criminal prosecution with penalties ranging from fines up to six months in jail for the parent, or juvenile hall for the child, plus the associated financial costs. Parents and children also met with probation officers who provided helpful resources for substance abuse treatment, parenting classes, and family therapy.
“Nothing good happens between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., when you are a minor out on the streets without parental consent or supervision,” said District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “Children who are out after curfew open themselves up to becoming victims of crime and we want to educate parents about the risks involved. I am very proud of the OC GRIP program and all they offer to our community,” said Rackauckas.
Curfew times vary by city, but begin at either 10:00 or 11:00 p.m. and last through 5:00 a.m. During this time, minors are prohibited from being out in public unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. Exceptions are made for minors participating in employment, educational, or emergency activities. On-duty teams conducted the sweeps in areas with a high volume of gang and/or criminal activity during their regular patrol at no additional cost to taxpayers.
OC GRIP aims to prevent juveniles from being victims of or participants in gang crimes by identifying at-risk youth, increasing school attendance, and decreasing gang activity. The sweeps were hosted by the OCDA, OCSD, Orange Police Department, and the Orange County Probation Department. The participating agencies included police departments from Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fountain Valley, Fullerton, Placentia, Santa Ana, Santa Ana Unified School District, Tustin, and Westminster. OCSD patrolled the Cities of Aliso Viejo, Dana Point, Lake Forest, Laguna Hills, Laguna Niguel, Mission Viejo, Rancho Santa Margarita, San Clemente, San Juan Capistrano, Stanton, and north and south unincorporated Orange County.
###
Tagged with:
OC GRIP
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Celebrates Student Achievement through OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution
Media Advisory
Press
Media Advisory: OC GRIP Thanksgiving Meal Distribution Day
Press
OC GRIP Hosts Gang Prevention Training for School Employees
