Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas Swearing-In Remarks - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas Swearing-In Remarks
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 31, 2011
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas Swearing-In Remarks
Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
Swearing-In Remarks
January 31, 2011
I am truly humbled and honored to take the Oath of Office for the fourth time, as the 21
st
District Attorney of Orange County.
It was recently pointed out that at the end of this term, I will be the second-longest serving DA after my former boss, Cecil Hicks.
Chairman Campbell, Supervisor Bates, Supervisor Nguyen, and Supervisor Nelson, and Moorlach
— thank you for allowing me the use of the Hall of Administration for my Oath of Office ceremony.
Collene – You have been my partner in fighting for victims’ rights for almost 30 years.
Thank you for the kind invocation.
Sheriff Hutchens – Congratulations on your overwhelming reelection and thank you to your Honor Guard.
Thank you Judge Carter.
You have been a colleague both in the District Attorney’s Office and on the bench and a life-long friend.
Mike Schroeder has served as my campaign Chairman for every one of my re-elections.
I appreciate how much time you have spent helping me.
Special thanks to the All-American Boys Chorus, Deputy District Attorney Charlyn Bender and Astrid Hagen.
City Council members, Police Chiefs, law enforcement office, Public Defender Kwast, the men and women of my Office, family and friends, my Facebook friends – Thank you all for coming. I see many out there who invested in my candidacy through contributions, endorsements and volunteering in my campaign.
Thank you all so much.
Recently, the 125
th
Congress made history by sitting together and crossing party lines.
That is not new for Orange County.
As usual, Orange County is ahead of our times.
I see out in the audience prosecutors and police officers sitting with defense attorneys and judges. Former State GOP Chairman Mike Schroeder and County GOP Chairman Tom Fuentes rubbing elbows with Union heads Nick Bernardino and Wayne Quint.
Despite our different duties and allegiances, Orange County has always been a congenial, legal and political community where we do our job diligently and can disagree without being disagreeable.
Much has changed since Assemblyman Eugene Edwards, who served as the first District Attorney from 1889 and 1890.
I want to set the record straight.
Despite the popular rumor, I did not know District Attorney Edwards personally.
I only know him through Judge Carter. Edwards’ first felony conviction was Modesta Avila of San Juan Capistrano.
She was sentenced to three years in San Quentin for attempting to obstruct a train.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
