Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement about his friendship with Paul Wilson, whose wife Christy was killed in the Seal Beach salon massacre - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement about his friendship with Paul Wilson, whose wife Christy was killed in the Seal Beach salon massacre
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
July 22, 2022
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement about his friendship with Paul Wilson, whose wife Christy was killed in the Seal Beach salon massacre
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  July 22, 2022
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement about his friendship with Paul Wilson, whose wife Christy was killed in the Seal Beach salon massacre
“On August 12, 2020, you held a protest outside my office in response to comments I made at a retirement party for two former prosecutors in December 2019. In response to the protest, I issued a press release that same day. In February 2021, you filed a county claim against me alleging defamation as a result of statements contained in that press release.  The county claim was denied.
In March 2022, you demanded that I issue a public retraction regarding the August 12, 2020 press release.
The last several years have been very painful for me as I watched my relationship with you deteriorate even though I can understand your frustration with what I said at that retirement party.
I have spent the last three years as the elected District Attorney of Orange County doing exactly what I promised I would do – clean up the corruption of the prior administration. It has not always been a process that has met with your satisfaction, but it has been a steady one and it is one that I remain steadfastly committed to completing.
At the time we issued the August 12, 2020 statement, I truly believed that your position was to support individuals who want to join the growing number of public defenders, supported by George Soros, attempting to take over district attorney offices in an effort to stop prosecuting criminals.
At our recent meeting you conveyed to me that is
not
your position and that you want criminals to continue to be held accountable. On that we agree and I am grateful for the clarification.
I am committed to keeping Orange County safe by holding violent criminals accountable and restoring the integrity of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office.
I regret that our friendship has been jeopardized by these recent interactions and I’m glad that we have been able to sit down on several occasions to discuss how to repair it.
I remain forever hopeful that we can continue to meet to discuss victims’ issues going forward in a show of good faith of our mutual commitment to public safety, integrity in the criminal justice system and protecting the residents of Orange County.
Respectfully,
Todd”
###
Tagged with:
Christy Wilson
Paul Wilson
Seal Beach Massacre
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Prosecutors in OC’s Deadliest Mass Murder Exhibited Prosecutorial Misconduct and Malpractice, Admin. Investigation Concludes
Press
SEAL BEACH SALON SHOOTER PLEADS GUILTY TO LARGEST MASS MURDER IN ORANGE COUNTY HISTORY
