Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
December 1, 2025
Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 27, 2025
Case #: 25NF5390
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for
Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence
Surveillance video captured woman dumping dog into backyard of an Anaheim Veterinary Clinic.
SANTA ANA – A woman seen on surveillance video throwing a poodle in a plastic bag into the backyard of an Anaheim veterinary clinic has been arrested and charged with felony animal cruelty and felony animal abuse.
Tyler Nashae Thompson, 30, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of felony animal cruelty, one felony count of felony animal abuse by a caretaker, and one misdemeanor count of concealing or destroying evidence. Thompson faces a maximum sentence of three years if convicted on all counts. Under California Penal Code 1170(h) which governs where convicted felons serve their sentences, Thompson would serve her sentence in the Orange County Jail.
On November 12, 2025, at about 1:37 a.m. Thompson is accused of exiting an apartment complex in the 1700 block of Glenoaks Avenue and throwing a plastic bag over the 8-foot fence of a nearby veterinary clinic. The grocery bag hit the ground, and a white poodle is seen walking out of the bag as Thompson walks back into the apartment complex. At about 6:30 a.m., the owner of the clinic arrives at work to find the poodle who does not belong at this business and contacts the Anaheim Police Department after watching his surveillance footage.
The poodle is extremely malnourished, flea-infested, and was missing a tooth. Anaheim detectives identified Thompson through surveillance video and arrested her on a $50,000 arrest warrant on Wednesday, November 27, 2025. Thompson is currently being held on that Orange County Jail in lieu of $50,000 bail. She is scheduled to be arraigned on Monday, December 1, 2025.
The poodle was seized by OC Animal Care which is currently caring for the dog.
“This poor dog was subjected to unimaginable suffering by someone who was supposed to care for her. Only the truly depraved would make the decision to abuse an animal who has no way to protect itself and then throw it away like a piece of trash,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The abuse of any defenseless animal will not be tolerated and those who engage in violence against animals will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Michael Chay of the Consumer & Environmental Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Consumer & Environmental Protection
Tyler Thompson
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Federal Charges Filed Against Former Orange County Prosecutor and Current Orange County Judge Israel Claustro for Defrauding California’s Workers’ Compensation Program
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other  California District Attorneys in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million  Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access  for Inspections of Cell Towers, Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations, and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees
Press
Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s Neck Snapped
