Third-striker Charged with Two Counts of Attempted Murder for Opening Fire on Undercover Gang Officers in City of Orange - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Third-striker Charged with Two Counts of Attempted Murder for Opening Fire on Undercover Gang Officers in City of Orange
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
December 2, 2024
Home
Press
Third-striker Charged with Two Counts of Attempted Murder for Opening Fire on Undercover Gang Officers in City of Orange
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 27, 2024
Case #: 24CF3020
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Third-striker Charged with Two Counts of Attempted Murder for Opening Fire
on Undercover Gang Officers in City of Orange
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old third-striker has been charged with two felony counts of attempted murder for opening fire on two undercover gang officers in the city of Orange who were driving through a gang neighborhood in an unmarked police car. The two officers returned fire, but no one was injured.
On the evening of Thursday, November 21, 2024, two undercover gang officers from the Orange Police Department were in an unmarked police vehicle when Victor Manuel Trinidad, whom they recognized from prior police contacts, shouted “what’s up, homie, where you from?” and grabbed something from his waistband.
Twenty minutes later, officers returned to the area with an Orange County probation officer to search for the man they believed had a gun.
The officers quickly located Trinidad, who began aggressively walking toward the unmarked police vehicle and throwing up his hands. As the two undercover Orange officers got out of their vehicle, Trinidad opened fire on the officers. Both officers returned fire. A round was later found in the door of the officers’ unmarked vehicle.
Trinidad was later arrested after he was found hiding in a cabinet in a nearby home. Trinidad was on Post-Release Community Supervision (PRCS) at the time of the shooting.
It is unclear whether Trinidad knew that the three people in the undercover vehicle were law enforcement officers.
In addition to the two felony counts of attempted murder, Trinidad, 28, of Orange, has been charged with one felony count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, one felony count of discharging a firearm at a vehicle, one felony count of possession of a firearm by a felon. He has also been charged with two felony enhancements of attempted premeditated murder, two felony enhancements of discharge of a firearm, and one felony enhancement of personally using a firearm.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all counts. He is currently being held without bail.
“This dangerous criminal didn’t care who was in that car; he opened fire to send a message that they didn’t belong in his neighborhood,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Thankfully, the officers were not injured and they will continue to do the work to protect our communities from the scourge of gangs.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Shane Melzer of the Gangs/TARGET Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Trinidad
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
