Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
January 18, 2022
Home
Press
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 18, 2022
Case #22CM00284
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif.- A man who punched two medical assistants at a COVID-19 vaccination clinic in Tustin and later groped a nurse who was providing him medical care has been charged with misdemeanor battery and resisting arrest.
On December 30, 2021, Thomas Apollo, 44, of Poway, was asked to leave the Families Together clinic after he refused to wear a mask. Apollo is accused of acting erratically, calling the clinic workers “murderers,” and using expletives toward employees who asked him to put on a mask or go back outside.
Apollo is accused of punching one of the medical assistants five times and another medical assistant twice. Several bystanders pinned Apollo down until police arrived.
Apollo is accused of refusing to follow commands given by Tustin police, who ultimately used a taser to be able to subdue him so that he could be handcuffed.
He is also accused of grabbing a nurse’s finger and bending it and groping her breast while she was treating him for minor cuts and scrapes while at O.C. Global Medical Center.
Apollo has been charged with one misdemeanor count of battery on a nurse, two misdemeanor counts of battery and one misdemeanor count of resisting arrest. He faces a maximum sentence of three years in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts.
“Instead of being treated with the same compassion and respect in which they treat their patients, these health care workers were punched in the face and physically assaulted for just trying to do their jobs,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Violence of any kind will not be tolerated and we will hold this individual accountable to the fullest extent of the law.”
Apollo is scheduled to be arraigned at the Central Justice Center in Department C54 on March 30, 2022.
Deputy District Attorney Matthew Bradbury of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Battery
Battery on a Nurse
Resisting Arrest
Thomas Apollo
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Mother Charged With Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery For Instructing Teenage Daughter to Hit Another Child  During a Youth Basketball Game
Press
Man Charged with Additional Hate Crime for Violating Civil Rights of Japanese-American Olympian in Verbal Attack
