Media Advisory - 10th Annual Victims' Rights Rally Speakers - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Media Advisory – 10th Annual Victims’ Rights Rally Speakers
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 30, 2018
Home
Press
Media Advisory – 10th Annual Victims’ Rights Rally Speakers
Date: March 27, 2018
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO: Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) Tony Rackauckas
WHAT: Is pleased to announce the speakers for the 10
th
Annual Victims’ Rights Rally
WHEN: Monday, April 9, 2018, at 11:00 a.m. (Reception) and 12:00 p.m. (Rally)
WHERE: Delhi Center, 505 E. Central Ave., Santa Ana, CA 92707
SPEAKERS:
Collene Campbell
not only lost her son to murder, but also her brother and sister-in-law, who were she and her late husband Gary’s best friends. Instead of shrinking after her great personal suffering, she became one of the worst nightmares of criminals. Her son’s killers were sentenced to life in prison nearly 30 years ago after brutally murdering and throwing then-27-year-old Scott Campbell out of a plane over the ocean for money and to steal his sports car. Collene continues to fight alongside the OCDA to oppose the inmates’ parole. The next hearing is on May 23, 2018.
For almost two decades, Campbell pushed for the prosecution of the mastermind behind her brother and sister-in-law’s murder until Michael Goodwin was convicted and sentenced to two consecutive terms of life in prison without parole. After Goodwin was convicted, Collene immediately faced the press waving her checkered flag, which was the symbol of her advocacy, and requested the public’s help in capturing the gunman Goodwin hired.
Anna Neal-Negrete
is the mother of Yacshicka W., a mother of three who was murdered on Oct. 20, 2007. Her killer, Jose Zuniga, was sentenced to 25 years to life in state prison on Oct. 6, 2017.
Yacshicka’s killer strangled the victim and left her body outside in the parking lot of a commercial business center in Santa Ana. Hours later, transients discovered the victim’s body and contacted Santa Ana Police Department, who investigated this case. Orange County Crime Lab investigators collected DNA evidence from the victim’s body and stored it in the state database. In 2013, a DNA hit matched the defendant after an unrelated arrest in Santa Ana. The Orange County Cold Case Homicide Task Force reopened the investigation and Zuniga was charged with murder after sufficient evidence was gathered, including additional witness interviews.
Neal-Negrete is devoted to keeping her daughter’s memory alive by speaking about her life and working to ensure all crime victims have a voice in the courtroom.
To request a seat at the Victims’ Rights Rally, please visit
https://OCDAVRR2018.eventbrite.com
Tagged with:
Victim's Rights
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Media Advisory
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office to Honor, Empower Victims at 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally
Press
2019 VICTIMS’ RIGHTS RALLY TO SHOWCASE STORIES OF EMPOWERMENT, CONTINUED FIGHT FOR VICTIMS’ RIGHTS
Press
DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S OFFICE TO HONOR, EMPOWER VICTIMS AT 2019 VICTIMS’ RIGHTS MARCH AND RALLY
