Orange County District Attorney’s Office Honors National Crime Victims’ Rights Week - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Honors National Crime Victims’ Rights Week
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 20, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Honors National Crime Victims’ Rights Week
Watch Now
Santa Ana, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is honoring brave crime victims this week as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week.
Every April prosecutors, law enforcement officers and victim advocates come together to pay tribute to crime victims and their loved ones and hear survivors tell their stories of how they are moving forward and reshaping their lives.
While the Coronavirus pandemic forced the cancellation of our annual Victims’ Rights March and Rally, we will never stop fighting for the courageous victims and the loved ones who support them.
This year’s theme is “Seek Justice. Ensure Victims’ Rights. Inspire Hope.”
“The voice of victims will never be silenced,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The current situation has forced temporary court closures and challenged the criminal justice system in a way we have never before experienced. Despite these uncharted waters. the Orange County District Attorney’s Office remains resolute in its commitment to fighting for victims in and out of the courtroom. The strength of crime victims inspires hope in us all.”
To honor crime victims and ensure their voices continue to be heard, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office produced a
video compilation
of past Victims’ Rights Marches and the victims speaking out for their rights.
Please honor crime victims everywhere by watching – and sharing –
this important tribute
to these courageous individuals.
Tagged with:
Crime Victim's week
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 1 =
