Inmate Awaiting Murder Trial Indicted by Grand Jury for Attempting to Murder Sheriff’s Deputy, Attacking Two Others - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Inmate Awaiting Murder Trial Indicted by Grand Jury for Attempting to Murder Sheriff’s Deputy, Attacking Two Others
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 1, 2020
Home
Press
Inmate Awaiting Murder Trial Indicted by Grand Jury for Attempting to Murder Sheriff’s Deputy, Attacking Two Others
Case # 20ZF0004
Assaults on Jail Staff Have Increased 140% since AB109 was Implemented
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An inmate awaiting trial for murder and attempted murder has been indicted by the Orange County Grand Jury on charges he attempted to kill an Orange County Sheriff’s deputy and attacked two other peace officers inside the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
Emmanuel Vega, 36, of Riverside, was indicted on one felony count of attempted murder of a peace officer with premeditation and deliberation, one felony count of aggravated assault on a peace officer, and two misdemeanor counts of battery on a peace officer in connection with the January 12, 2019 attack inside Theo Lacy. He pled not guilty on February 28, 2020 and is currently being held on $1 million bail.
Vega faces a maximum of 15 years to life if convicted on all four counts.
According to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, assaults by Orange County Jail inmates have increased exponentially since implementation of AB109.  Prior to AB109, from 2007 to 2011, there was an average of 26.8 inmate-on-staff assaults per year.  From 2012 to 2017, the six years after AB109 was implemented, there was an average of 64.5 inmate assaults on staff per year – a 140 percent increase.  Inmate-on-inmate assaults are increasing as well.  From 2007 to 2011, there was an average of 334 inmate-on-inmate assaults per year.  From 2012 to 2017, there was an average of 745 inmate-on-inmate assaults per year – a 123 percent increase.  On any given day, there are approximately 825 state prisoners serving their multi-year sentences in Orange County Jail.
“Our local jails have become violent state prisons because of terrible policy decisions out of Sacramento. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will vigorously and forcefully prosecute anyone who commits violence against any Orange County jail personnel,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Housing hardened criminals in local jails that were never intended to hold these kind of violent career criminals is putting the safety of our law enforcement officers at risk more than ever before – and Orange County is suffering the effects. It is alarming and unacceptable that our law enforcement officers are increasingly becoming the targets of violence behind bars. We will not tolerate it.”
“This attempted murder against a member of our Department was investigated by the Sheriff’s Custody Intelligence Unit and the case was presented to the District Attorney’s Office,” said Orange County Sheriff-Coroner Don Barnes. “A crime of this severity is indicative of a sophisticated criminal element operating within our jails. These state-prisoners-turned-county-inmates are more criminally sophisticated, increasing both the inmate assaults on staff and the amount of narcotics being trafficked into Orange County Jails. This is a challenge that sheriffs statewide are experiencing. We are taking proactive steps to address and mitigate the impacts. It is important for the public to know the reality of these problems and the consequence of poor public policy that has created them.”
###
Tagged with:
Aggravated Assault
attempted murder of a peace officer
Battery
Deliberation
Emmanuel Vega
Premeditation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
Press
Mother Charged With Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery For Instructing Teenage Daughter to Hit Another Child  During a Youth Basketball Game
