Husband Charged with Attempted Murder, Child Endangerment for Trying to Kill Estranged Wife at Child’s Flag Football Game - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Husband Charged with Attempted Murder, Child Endangerment for Trying to Kill Estranged Wife at Child’s Flag Football Game
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 18, 2021
Home
Press
Husband Charged with Attempted Murder, Child Endangerment for Trying to Kill Estranged Wife at Child’s Flag Football Game
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 18, 2021
Case # 21WF1256
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Husband Charged with Attempted Murder, Child Endangerment
for Trying to Kill Estranged Wife at Child’s Flag Football Game
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been charged with attempted murder and child endangerment for trying to kill his estranged wife with two large butcher knives at their son’s flag football game on Friday. The couple’s nine-year-old son and an off-duty Garden Grove police officer intervened in the attack.
Russell Matthew Husges, 43, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder, one count of felony assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm, one misdemeanor count of disobeying a domestic relations court order, and one misdemeanor count of child abuse and endangerment.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison. Husges is currently being held at the Orange County Jail.
The 40-year-old victim was watching the couple’s nine-year-old son play flag football on Friday, May 14, 2021, when her estranged husband is accused of charging across the field at her holding two large butcher knives.
Spectators, including an off-duty Garden Grove police officer and the victim’s nine-year-old son, intervened in the attack. The victim had been granted a family court order against her estranged husband a few weeks prior to the attack.
“No one should be subjected to violence for making the decision to leave a relationship and no child should have to intervene to stop one parent from attacking another,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The act itself is horrific, but to attempt to carry out this kind of violence in front of innocent children and their parents is the stuff of nightmares.”
Deputy District Attorney Diana King of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Assault with a Deadly Weapon
Attempted Murder
Child Abuse and Endangerment
Russell Matthew Husges
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Shooting Rampage Sentenced to 21 years in State Prison Orange County District Attorney’s Office objected to lenient sentence, judge striking firearms enhancements and premeditation and deliberation allegations
