Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Deceased Woman’s Credit Cards in Attempt to Buy Thousands of Dollars in Automotive Parts - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Deceased Woman’s Credit Cards in Attempt to Buy Thousands of Dollars in Automotive Parts
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 24, 2021
Home
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Deceased Woman’s Credit Cards in Attempt to Buy Thousands of Dollars in Automotive Parts
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: September 24, 2021
Case # 21NF2964
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
San Dimas man was indicted by Grand Jury last year for stealing guns, burglarizing home of deceased Yorba Linda man
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s Department deputy indicted by a grand jury on multiple felonies for breaking into the home of a deceased man to steal guns and other items is facing new charges for stealing credit cards of a woman whom the deputy also found dead in her Yorba Linda home. He is accused of attempting to use the stolen credit cards to make purchases from an automotive parts store and QVC network and have some of the purchases delivered to his own home.
On July 20, 2020, Steve Hortz, 42, of San Dimas, responded along with two other Sheriff’s Department employees to a home on Via Angelina Drive in Yorba Linda to conduct a welfare check. The homeowner was found deceased of what was later determined to be natural causes.
The 12-year veteran was captured on home surveillance video returning to the deceased man’s home several times, including once while on duty and wearing his Sheriff’s uniform, to steal more than $27,000 in guns and other items from the home.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department initiated an investigation after the probate attorney handling the deceased homeowner’s estate reported that a law enforcement officer may have stolen items from the home.
Hortz was arrested on September 10, 2020 by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department and resigned in lieu of termination effective September 30, 2020.
Hortz was indicted in December 2020 on three felony counts of second-degree burglary and two felony counts of grand theft of a firearm in connection with breaking into the deceased man’s Yorba Linda home.
On August 19, 2020, before Hortz had been identified as the suspect in the other thefts, Hortz was called to a Yorba Linda home of a deceased woman. He is accused of taking three credit cards from the home and attempting to use the cards to make thousands of dollars of unauthorized online purchases and have them sent in some cases to his own home address. The majority of the charges were declined.
Today, Hortz was charged with one felony count of identity theft, one felony count of grand theft embezzlement, and four felony counts of attempted grand theft. He faces a maximum sentence of four years and four months in state prison if convicted of all those charges.
“This individual was called to assist grieving families in a time of need and instead he betrayed their trust,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This behavior is unworthy of someone who wears the badge and thankfully as a result of the Orange County Sheriff’s Department investigation, he is no longer in a position where he can use his uniform and badge to victimize the very people he was sworn to protect.”
Deputy District Attorney Avery Harrison of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Grand theft of Firearm
Second-degree Burglary
Steve Hortz
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Indicted by Grand Jury For Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Press
Former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Stealing Guns, Burglarizing Home of Deceased Man
Press
Third Striker Charged with Attacking Police Officer Days After Appointed Commissioner Releases Him on Own Recognizance
