Father of 2-year-old Child Who Was Stabbed and Beaten is Charged with Attempted Murder, Mother with Torture - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Father of 2-year-old Child Who Was Stabbed and Beaten is Charged with Attempted Murder, Mother with Torture
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 21, 2021
Home
Press
Father of 2-year-old Child Who Was Stabbed and Beaten is Charged with Attempted Murder, Mother with Torture
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 21, 2021
Case # 21CF3623
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Toddler’s Mother also facing Torture Charge
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The father of a 2-year-old child who was stabbed and beaten has been charged with felony attempted murder and torture charges. The child’s mother is also facing a felony torture charge involving the toddler. The child is expected to survive.
Santos Salgado Beltran, 34, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder and one felony count of torture. He has also been charged with two felony enhancements of causing great bodily injury to a child under the age of five and one felony enhancement of the personal use of a deadly weapon.
He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life plus 17 years and six months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Ana Billalba, 27, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of torture and one felony enhancement of causing great bodily injury to a child under the age of five. She faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life plus five years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Beltran and Billalba are scheduled to be arraigned today in CJ1.
Beltran and Billalba were arrested Sunday after a relative saw the toddler’s stab wound and other injuries and called police. Three other children were removed from the couple’s home and placed with Social Services.
“A two-year-old child should not have to suffer the horrors of being beaten and stabbed – especially by the very people who are supposed to do everything they can to keep her safe,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The initial facts of this case are beyond disturbing and if the ongoing investigation reveals additional crimes have been committed that we can prove beyond a reasonable doubt, we will file additional charges. Children should be surrounded by love, not violence and it is our responsibility as a society to stand up and protect our children when their own parents have abdicated that responsibility.”
Deputy District Attorney Bethel Cope-Vega of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Ana Billalba
Attempted Murder
Santos Salgado Beltran
Stabbing
Torture
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
