Brea Man Charged with Impersonating a Medical Doctor and Performing Invasive Cosmetic Procedures in Anaheim, La Habra Fake doctor targeted Spanish-speaking community; investigators are urging potential victims to come forward - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Brea Man Charged with Impersonating a Medical Doctor and Performing Invasive Cosmetic Procedures in Anaheim, La Habra Fake doctor targeted Spanish-speaking community; investigators are urging potential victims to come forward
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
August 4, 2022
Home
Press
Brea Man Charged with Impersonating a Medical Doctor and Performing Invasive Cosmetic Procedures in Anaheim, La Habra Fake doctor targeted Spanish-speaking community; investigators are urging potential victims to come forward
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 4, 2022
Case #: 22NF1767
Brea Man Charged with Impersonating a Medical Doctor and Performing Invasive Cosmetic Procedures in Anaheim, La Habra
Fake doctor targeted Spanish-speaking community; investigators
are urging potential victims to come forward
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Brea man was charged with multiple felonies for impersonating a medical doctor and performing medical procedures including Botox injections, lip and face fillers, and thread-lift procedures on numerous unsuspecting victims.  The fake doctor is accused of targeting Spanish-speaking women to perform the unlicensed procedures.
Authorities believe there may be additional victims and are urging anyone who was treated by Elias Renteria Segoviano to report those procedures to the Orange County District Attorney’s Bureau of Investigation by contacting Investigator T. Hoang at 714-834-6538.
“Medical professionals are highly trained and highly regulated for a reason,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “These women trusted this individual to have the training and the expertise required to perform these medical procedures, and instead they unknowingly put their very lives in the hands of someone who had no idea what they were doing.”
Segoviano, 61, of Brea, has been charged with one felony count of the unauthorized practice of medicine, one felony count of false indication of a medical license, and one felony count of perjury. He has also been charged with one misdemeanor count of misrepresenting self as a licensed medical practitioner, one misdemeanor count of representation of license not issued to him or her, one misdemeanor count of misrepresentation of qualifications, and one misdemeanor count of impersonating a professional nurse or pretending to be licensed to practice nursing.
He faces a maximum sentence of five years and four months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
He is currently being held on $1 million bail. He has pleaded not guilty to all counts.
Segoviano was arrested on July 19, 2022 at his business, Botox in Anaheim, within the Phenix Salon Suites, located at 935 S. Brookhurst St. in Anaheim, California.  Segoviano used various social media platforms to advertise his services to potential clients, including videos and postings on Facebook, Tiktok, and other social media platforms.  Segoviano used various aliases including “Dr. Elias”, “Dr. Elias Renteria”, “Dr. Elias Renteria M.D.“ and used “ELIASMD” on his vehicle license plate.
Segoviano is believed to have utilized other locations for his unlawful medical practice since 2019 including 339 La Habra Blvd, La Habra, CA.  Various business names were used for his unlicensed practice including “Botox in Anaheim,” “Botox in Anaheim- Health and Beauty,” “Neurotoxina Botulinica- Massage Service,” “Threads in Anaheim, “Threads La Habra”, “Botox La Habra,” and “OC Threads, Botox & Fillers.”
Segoviano is accused of performing invasive procedures and injecting victims with potentially counterfeit Botox, fillers, anesthetics, and other medical drugs that placed the public at extreme risk.
Deputy District Attorney Diran H. Tashjian of the Consumer and Environmental Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Botox
Elias Renteria Segoviano
Fillers
unauthorized practice of medicine
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Falso doctor que se declaró culpable de estafar a mujeres de habla hispana realizándoles procedimientos de bótox y estiramiento con hilos tensores sin licencia ahora es acusado de tratar de abrir un nuevo negocio de bótox, menos de dos semanas después de ser liberado de la prisión
Press
Fake Doctor who Pled Guilty to Targeting Spanish-speaking Women for Unlicensed Botox, Thread-lift Procedures Charged with Trying to Open New Botox Business Less Than Two Weeks after Being Released from Prison
Press
Hombre de Brea Acusado de Hacerse Pasar por un Médico y Realizar Procedimientos Cosméticos Invasivos en Anaheim, La Habra
