Former Laguna Beach Police Officer Charged with Assault with a Deadly Weapon on Fellow Officer - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Former Laguna Beach Police Officer Charged with Assault with a Deadly Weapon on Fellow Officer
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 20, 2020
Home
Press
Former Laguna Beach Police Officer Charged with Assault with a Deadly Weapon on Fellow Officer
Case # 20CF1868
Former Laguna Beach Police Officer Charged with Assault with a Deadly Weapon on Fellow Officer
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Laguna Beach police officer has been charged with assault with a deadly weapon for pulling out a gun and holding it to the back of the head of a fellow officer following a night of drinking.
Luke Christian Gilbertson, 35, pleaded not guilty today to one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon and one felony enhancement of the personal use of a firearm during the commission of a felony. He faces a maximum sentence of 19 years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Gilbertson has been released on $50,000 bail.
On September 23, 2019, Gilbertson was with three other Laguna Beach police officers and a police dispatcher at a pool party and barbeque and then went to two other locations to drink alcohol. The group was in the same vehicle on the way home from a Santa Ana bar when Gilbertson is accused of pulling a handgun from his holster and holding it at the head of a fellow police officer.
No one was injured.
Gilbertson is no longer a member of the Laguna Beach Police Department.
“It is unacceptable for an Officer of the law to behave in a way that so blatantly disregards the well-being of another human. No one is above the law, especially a police officer who was entrusted to protect the innocent,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Deputy District Attorney Tara Meath of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Felony Assault with deadly weapon
Luke Christian Gilbertson
personal use of a firearm
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 4 =
