Former Sheriff’s Deputy Charged in Scalding Water Assault on Mentally Ill Inmate in Orange County Jail - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Former Sheriff’s Deputy Charged in Scalding Water Assault on Mentally Ill Inmate in Orange County Jail
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 13, 2021
Home
Press
Former Sheriff’s Deputy Charged in Scalding Water Assault on Mentally Ill Inmate in Orange County Jail
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 13, 2021
Case # 21CF3529
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy has been charged with two felonies in connection with throwing scalding water on a mentally ill inmate, causing first- and second-degree burns to his hands. The injured inmate was not provided medical care for more than six hours.
Guadalupe Ortiz, 47, has been charged with one felony count of assault or battery by a public officer and one felony count of battery with serious bodily injury. He faces a maximum sentence of four years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Ortiz spent 19 years working as an Orange County Sheriff’s deputy and previously served as a Sheriff’s Special Officer (SSO) for three years. He was terminated on Friday.
He is scheduled to be arraigned on January 11, 2022, at the Central Justice Center in C55.
“The law imputes a special duty of care on custodial personnel and in this case the Sheriff’s deputy completely breached that duty and crossed the line into criminal conduct,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As District Attorney it is my responsibility to hold Sheriff’s deputies and other jail staff accountable when they fail to properly protect those in their care. And now a deputy is throwing away a 22-year-career for inflicting unnecessary harm on a mentally ill inmate out of frustration.”
On April 1, 2021, Ortiz was working as a custodial deputy at the Sheriff’s Intake Release Center in Santa Ana. Another deputy was attempting to get a mentally ill inmate to comply with orders to retract his hands from the hatch door so that the door could be closed.
When he could not get the inmate to comply, Ortiz and another deputy offered to help. At approximately 12:28 p.m., Ortiz is accused of using a hot water dispenser to fill a cup with scalding water and going over to the uncooperative inmate’s cell along with two other deputies. The inmate again ignored orders to put his hands back inside his cell and Ortiz is accused of pouring the scalding water on the hands of the inmate, causing him to immediately pull his hands back inside his cell. One of the deputies closed the hatch door and the three deputies left.
At 7 p.m. – 6 ½ hours later – another deputy spoke to the inmate during a standard security check and requested medical attention for the inmate’s arm which was red and peeling.
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
assault or battery by a public officer
Guadalupe Ortiz
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
