Statements by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas - Baby Food Contamination - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Statements by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas – Baby Food Contamination
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 4, 2009
Home
Press
Statements by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas – Baby Food Contamination
Baby Food Contamination
Statements by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
July 27, 2004
Thank you Chief Maggard.
This is an active investigation so there will many facts that we cannot share with you all at this time.
I hope you understand.
We are having to do a careful balancing act – between informing the public of possible health dangers and making sure we bring the person or persons responsible for this reprehensible act to justice.
Chief Maggard gave you the basic facts that we can release at this time.
First, I want to say that the folks at Gerber Products have been helping us on this case.
Gerber Products is not a target.
This is an isolated incident involving one product, one store, in one city.
This is an important topic for me because I have five kids, including a three year old.
It is hard for me to imagine why anyone would harm babies and create fear in parents’ minds.
First, I want to say that we have identified a laborer named Charles Dewey Cage, age 47, of Irvine, as a “person of interest.”
Mr. Cage is believed to have relevant information connected to this case.
Law enforcement is requesting the public’s help in finding Mr. Cage.
And Mr. Cage, if you are listening, please contact my office.
Second, I want to talk to parents regarding how to be vigilant about food products.
First, look for jars that contain this plastic shrink wrap that seals the jar.
Then listen for the “pop” sound.
Unfortunately, we have information that this sound alone does not mean that the jar was not tampered with.
It is possible to reseal this jar and have the safety pop up button go back down.
Then, pour out the contents into a bowl or a plate and examine the product before feeding your child or eating it.
Anyone with information related to this criminal investigation or knows the whereabouts of Mr. Cage should call Irvine Police Detective Ron Carr at (949) 724-7180 or District Attorney Supervising Investigator Alan Vanderpool at (714) 347-8736.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
