Santa Ana Police Detective Charged with Sending Graphic Messages to Civilian Decoy Pretending to be 14-year-old Girl - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Santa Ana Police Detective Charged with Sending Graphic Messages to Civilian Decoy Pretending to be 14-year-old Girl
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
August 2, 2022
Home
Press
Santa Ana Police Detective Charged with Sending Graphic Messages to Civilian Decoy Pretending to be 14-year-old Girl
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 2, 2022
Case #: 22CM05563
Santa Ana Police Detective Charged with Sending Graphic Messages to Civilian Decoy Pretending to be 14-year-old Girl
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A police detective with the Santa Ana Police Department has been charged with sending graphic messages to a civilian decoy who pretended to be a 14-year-old girl. The officer is accused of engaging in some of the inappropriate communication while on duty.
Gregory Daniel Beaumarchais, 43, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of annoying or molesting a victim believed to be under the age of 18. Beaumarchais, who has been a member of the Santa Ana Police Department since 2011, has been on administrative leave. Beaumarchais turned himself in today.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security assisted in the investigation after the decoy contacted OC Crime Stoppers to inform them of the messages that were being sent by someone claiming to be a 45-year-old police officer. Beaumarchais is accused of sending graphic messages with the civilian decoy between December 2021 and January 2022.
After access to his social media platform was cut off by the provider, Beaumarchais is accused of creating another account under a similar social media handle.
Beaumarchais faces a maximum sentence of one year in the Orange County Jail and he will be required to register as a sex offender if convicted.
“Today’s filing of criminal charges for showing sexual interest in children shows no one is above the law when it comes to keeping communities free from predators,” said Shawn Gibson, acting Special Agent in Charge, HSI Los Angeles. “HSI is grateful for the collaboration with our federal, state and local law enforcement partners to get these predators out of our communities and into the justice system.”
“Police officers are entrusted with the sacred responsibility to safeguard society from harm,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is beyond disturbing that a sworn police officer would engage in inappropriate conversations with someone he believed to be a child. Our children should not have to worry about being preyed upon by the very people we teach them who are there to protect them. The vast majority of police officers are the trusted authority figures we expect them to be and when an officer engages in criminal behavior it tarnishes the badge of all of our hardworking law enforcement officers.”
Deputy District Attorney Jeff Boyd of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
annoying or molesting a victim believed to be under the age of 18
Gregory Daniel Beaumarchais
Inappropriate Communication
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 9 =
