Man Charged with Child Abuse involving Four Children in Cypress - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Child Abuse involving Four Children in Cypress
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
August 9, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Child Abuse involving Four Children in Cypress
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 9, 2021
Case # 21WF2035
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 40-year-old Cypress man has been charged with multiple felonies in connection with torturing a child, sexually assaulting another child at age 14, and also abusing two other children.
Douglas Alba, 40, of Cypress, has been charged with one felony count of torture, one felony count of child abuse and endangerment, and four felony counts of a corporal injury to a child. He has also been charged with two felony counts of sodomy by force of a child 14 years or older, two felony counts of sexual penetration of a child 14 years old by a foreign object by force, one felony count of attempted forcible oral copulation of a child 14 years or older, and two felony counts of a lewd and lascivious act on a child 14 or 15 years old.
He faces a maximum sentence of 30 years to life if convicted on all charges.
Alba is accused of abusing the children for nearly a year. The abuse was discovered by authorities after the 10-year-old child was taken to the hospital last month with black eyes, bleeding to the brain, and bruising all over the child’s body.
Alba was arrested by the Cypress Police Department. He is scheduled to be arraigned on August 24, 2021 in Department C55 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana. Alba is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility on $1 million bail.
“The scars of child abuse go far beyond the physical,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The psychological and emotional trauma these children were forced to endure shocks the conscience. Reports of child abuse have plummeted during the pandemic as children have been kept home and away from mandatory reporters at schools and daycare. We as a community have an obligation to protect the innocent and report any and all suspected child abuse to the authorities. We protect our children by speaking up.”
Deputy District Attorney Mike Hernandez of the Family Protection Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Child Abuse
Douglas Alba
lewd and lascivious acts on a minor
Sexual Assault
Torture
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
