Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 29, 2026
Home
Press
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 29, 2026
Case #: 25NF4759
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Sergeant Matt Sutter
Public Information Officer
Anaheim Police Department
714-321-6807
Anaheim Woman Accused of Killing, Decapitating Her Boyfriend of Two Months
Arrested in Mexico, Brought Back to Orange County to Face Murder Charges
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Anaheim woman accused of killing and decapitating her boyfriend of two months has been arrested in Mexico and was returned to the United States to face murder charges in Orange County.
Alyssa Marie Lira, 23, of Anaheim, has been charged with one felony count of murder and one felony enhancement of personally using a weapon. She faces a maximum sentence of 26 years to life if convicted on all counts.
For the past five months, Anaheim Police homicide detectives have been working with the Orange County District Attorney’s Office Organized Crime Unit, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Orange County Resident Agency, and the FBI’s Assistant Legal Attachés in Mexico, as well as Mexican Authorities, to locate and arrest Lira in connection with the murder of her boyfriend, 55-year-old Enrique Gonzalez-Carbajal. On January 22, 2026, Lira was taken into custody in Mexico.
The following day, Anaheim Police homicide detectives took custody of Lira at the San Ysidro Point of Entry and booked her into the Anaheim Police Department Detention Facility on suspicion of murder.
On August 25, 2025, Gonzalez-Carbajal’s headless body was discovered in Lira’s home.
During the course of the investigation, Anaheim homicide detectives identified Lira, as a suspect and determined that she had immediately fled to Mexico after the murder.
Lira is scheduled to be arraigned on February 13, 2026, at the North Justice Center in Department N3. She is currently being held at the Orange County Jail without bail.
“Nothing, not time, not distance, nor foreign borders, will thwart our pursuit of justice, and Orange County law enforcement will continue to go the very ends of the earth to carry out our mission and hold criminals accountable for the heinous acts they commit,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This investigation and prosecution are a testament to the tenacity and the dedication of the Anaheim Police Department, of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, and of our federal and international partners to identify a cold-blooded killer, track her down in a foreign country, and bring her back to the United States to face the full weight of the law.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Mark Birney of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Alyssa Marie Lira
Homicide
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy Charged with Voluntary Manslaughter for Shooting and Killing Her Fiancée in Their Tustin Apartment
Press
62-year-old San Juan Capistrano Man Charged with Murder for Stabbing His Estranged Wife to Death in their Home
Press
Man Wanted in 2017 Stabbing Death of Romantic Rival Extradited Back to Orange County to Face Special Circumstances Murder Charges After Eight Years on Run
