Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Business Partner for Financial Gain - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Business Partner for Financial Gain
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 26, 2019
Home
Press
Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Business Partner for Financial Gain
Case # 11CF2363
Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole for Murdering Business Partner for Financial Gain
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man was sentenced today to life without the possibility of parole for murdering his business partner in their San Juan Capistrano office to gain control of the victim’s shares of the company.
Edward Shin, 41, of Irvine, was convicted in December 2018 of one felony count of murder with a sentencing enhancement for murder for financial gain.
In 2010, Shin co-owned an Internet advertising business, 800xchange, with 33-year-old Christopher Smith. On June 4, 2010, Shin murdered Smith in their San Juan Capistrano office and disposed of the body. He committed the murder for financial gain with the intention of gaining full ownership of the business. After the murder, Shin produced documents containing a false signature from Smith signing the rights of the business over to defendant.
Smith lived in the City of Laguna Beach and the Laguna Beach Police Department began investigating this case as a missing persons case based on a report filed by the victim’s family in April 2011. The Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) took over as the lead investigating agency based on evidence that the victim had been murdered in San Juan Capistrano. Shin was arrested on Aug. 28, 2011, by OCSD Investigators at Los Angeles International Airport sitting onboard a flight awaiting departure to Canada.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Matt Murphy of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Edward Shin
Murder for Financial gain
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Attorney Sentenced To Life in Prison without the Possibility of Parole for Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Her Overboard
Press
Former Attorney Convicted of Strangling Ex-Wife, Throwing Body Overboard During Mediterranean Cruise
