OC District Attorney Todd Spitzer and Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis Issue Statement on Death of James Alan Neal - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
OC District Attorney Todd Spitzer and Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis Issue Statement on Death of James Alan Neal
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 22, 2020
Home
Press
OC District Attorney Todd Spitzer and Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis Issue Statement on Death of James Alan Neal
Case # 19HF0192
Neal was charged in murder of 11-year-old Linda O’Keefe after being identified as suspect in 46-year-old cold case through investigative genetic genealogy
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer and Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis issued the following statements regarding the death of inmate James Alan Neal who was charged in the 1973 sexual assault and murder of 11-year-old Linda O’Keefe in Newport Beach. It wasn’t until 2019 following a relentless 46-year investigation by law enforcement that investigative genetic genealogy identified Neal as the suspect in Linda’s murder, and he was arrested.
“The pursuit of justice is never-ending, and in this case the hunt for a child rapist and murderer lasted more than 46 years and transcended generations of law enforcement officers,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It was not if, but when we would find the killer of 11-year-old Linda O’Keefe, and when that day finally came in 2019 as a result of advances in investigative genetic genealogy, we thought we were one step closer to justice for Linda and her family. The death of James Neal prior to putting him on trial for Linda’s rape and murder robs the O’Keefe family of the justice they so deserve and deprives the law enforcement officers of the satisfaction that they finally got their culprit.”
“It was our intention to see James Alan Neal stand trial and answer for the murder of Linda Ann O’Keefe.  Linda’s story deeply touched the hearts of our community,” said Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis. “Through the tireless efforts of generations of our investigators, we hope we have been able to bring a measure of closure to Linda’s family, friends, and loved ones.”
Tagged with:
Abduction
Cold Case
James Alan Neal
James Albert Layton Jr
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Media statement
Murder
Sexual Assault
Sexual Molestation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
