NEWPORT BEACH SURGEON AND GIRLFRIEND FACING NEW CHARGES FOR KIDNAPPING AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING ADDITIONAL WOMEN - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
17 min read
NEWPORT BEACH SURGEON AND GIRLFRIEND FACING NEW CHARGES FOR KIDNAPPING AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING ADDITIONAL WOMEN
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 17, 2018
Home
Press
NEWPORT BEACH SURGEON AND GIRLFRIEND FACING NEW CHARGES FOR KIDNAPPING AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING ADDITIONAL WOMEN
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 18HF1291
Date: October 17, 2018
NEWPORT BEACH SURGEON AND GIRLFRIEND FACING NEW CHARGES FOR KIDNAPPING AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING ADDITIONAL WOMEN
*Five additional victims for surgeon; three additional for his girlfriend
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office filed additional charges against a Newport Beach surgeon for sexually assaulting five additional women, for a total of seven victims. The surgeon’s girlfriend is charged in three additional assaults and both defendants face additional charges of kidnapping to commit rape. The defendants were initially charged on Sept. 11, 2018, with sexually assaulting two women by use of drugs. Their pre-trial hearing date is scheduled for Jan. 18, 2019, at 8:30 a.m. in Department H-7, Harbor Justice Center, Newport Beach.
Defendant
Felony Charges
Maximum Sentence
Grant William Robicheaux, 38, Newport Beach
(3) Kidnapping with intent to commit a sexual offense
(4) Rape by use of drugs
(2) Assault with intent to commit sexual offense
Forcible rape
Oral copulation by anesthesia or controlled substance
(4) Possession of a controlled substance for sale
(2) Possession of an assault weapon
Sentencing Enhancements
(2) Personally armed with firearm during health and safety code violation
82 years and four months to life in state prison
Bail: $1 million
Cerissa Laura Riley, 31, Newport Beach
(3) Kidnapping with intent to commit a sexual offense
(3) Rape by use of drugs
(2) Assault with intent to commit sexual offense
Oral copulation by anesthesia or controlled substance
(4) Possession of a controlled substance for sale
Sentencing Enhancement
Knowingly vicariously armed with firearm
63 years to life in state prison
Bail: $1 million
“We believe if the defendants met the victims in a public place, drugged them while in that public place, and relocated them back to their home after their victims were rendered incapable of consent, with the intent to sexually assault their prey – that’s kidnapping,” stated District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “If you feel you have been victimized by these defendants, we want to hear from you. Even if you willfully became intoxicated, or took drugs, no one gets a pass to sexually assault you once you are past the point of consent.”
Circumstances of the Case
Jane Doe 1
In September 2009, Jane Doe 1, who was in her mid-20s,met Robicheaux at a bar in Newport Beach and proceeded to go on a few dates.
On Sep. 7, 2009, Robicheaux is accused of forcibly raping the victim at his residence after she told him she did not want to have sex. Jane Doe 1 was aware the defendant possessed weapons and was scared.
Jane Doe 1 reported the assault to OCDA after OCDA announced law enforcement was seeking potential additional victims.
Jane Doe 2
On March 14, 2015, Robicheaux and Riley are accused of raping Jane Doe 2, who was in her mid-20s,while she was prevented from resisting due to intoxicating and controlled substances and they should have reasonably known of her condition.
Jane Doe 2 reported the assault to OCDA after OCDA announced law enforcement was seeking potential additional victims.
Jane Doe 3 – Amendment of initial charges filed Sept. 11, 2018
In April 2016, Robicheaux and Riley are accused of meeting Jane Doe 3 who was in her early 30s, at a restaurant in Newport Beach.
On April 10, 2016, Robicheaux and Riley are accused of inviting the victim to a party in Newport Beach and supplying multiple drugs to the victim until she was highly intoxicated.
The defendants are accused of then kidnapping Jane Doe 3 with intent to commit rape by bringing her to their home and carrying her upstairs to commit the sex acts.
Robicheaux and Riley are further accused of raping and orally copulating the victim while she was prevented from resisting due to intoxicating and controlled substances and they should have reasonably known of her condition.
Jane Doe 3 contacted the Newport Beach Police Department (NBPD) the next day and underwent a forensic exam, which tested positive for multiple controlled substances.
Jane Doe 4 – Amendment of initial charges filed Sept. 11, 2018
On Oct. 2, 2016, Robicheaux and Riley are accused of drinking alcohol with Jane Doe 4, who was in her mid-20s,at a bar in Newport Beach until the victim was highly intoxicated.
The defendants are accused of kidnapping the victim with intent to commit a sexual offense by taking Jane Doe 4 to their home.
Jane Doe 4 woke to Robicheaux attempting to sexually assault her with intent to commit rape and screamed for help until a neighbor called NBPD, who responded to the scene and investigated this case.
Jane Doe 5
On Oct. 29, 2016, Jane Doe 5, who was in her mid-30s,met Robicheaux and Riley at a Halloween party in Newport Beach through a mutual acquaintance and are accused of placing GHB in the victim’s drink while she was at the defendants’ residence.
The defendants are further accused of sexually assaulting and raping the victim in their bedroom while she was prevented from resisting due to intoxicating and controlled substances. Jane Doe 5 awoke during the assault.
Jane Doe 5 reported the assault to OCDA after OCDA announced law enforcement was seeking potential additional victims.
Jane Doe 6
On April 16, 2017, Jane Doe 6, who was in her early 20s,met Robicheaux on a popular dating app and went on a date at a restaurant in Newport Beach.
Riley is accused of showing up during the date and pretending to be Robicheaux’s friend, not a romantic interest.
Jane Doe 6 and the defendants went to another bar where the defendants are accused of supplying intoxicating substances to the victim until she was highly intoxicated.
Robicheaux and Riley are then accused of kidnapping Jane Doe 6 with intent to commit rape by bringing the victim to their home in this condition without her consent.
The victim awoke in the defendants’ home where Riley and Robicheaux are accused of sexually assaulting her on the bed.
Jane Doe 6 was eventually able to run to the bathroom where she locked herself for the night until she was able to leave the next morning.
Jane Doe 6 reported the assault to OCDA after OCDA announced law enforcement was seeking potential additional victims.
Jane Doe 7
Jane Doe 7, who was in her early 20s, met Robicheaux and Riley at a Fourth of July party in 2017 while the victim was out with a friend.
On July 8, 2017, the victim went with the defendants to a party on a boat in Newport Beach and consumed multiple alcoholic beverages.
The defendants are accused of inviting Jane Doe 7 to Robicheaux’s residence. When the intoxicated victim laid down to sleep, Robicheaux is accused of raping her while reasonably knowing of the victim’s inability to resist.
Jane Doe 7 reported the assault to OCDA after OCDA announced law enforcement was seeking potential additional victims.
Investigation
On Jan. 9, 2018, Robicheaux and Riley are accused of possessing large quantities of illegal drugs for purposes of sale, which were recovered in their residence (psilocybin mushrooms, MDA, cocaine, and GHB).
Robicheaux is also accused of possessing two illegal, unregistered assault rifles, four other firearms, and several large capacity magazines.
NBPD submitted the case to the Orange County District Attorney’s Office for review on Sept. 6, 2018. The case was filed on Sept. 11, 2018, and NBPD arrested the defendants at their residence on Sept. 12, 2018.
The defendants may have traveled together to various festivals and locations since 2015 including Burning Man in Black Rock Desert, Nevada, Dirtybird Campout festival in Silverado, Splash House festival in Palm Springs, BPM Festival in Playa del Carmen and Tulum in Mexico, and landmarks near Page, Arizona. Robicheaux also appeared on the Bravo television show “Online Dating Rituals of the American Male.”
The investigation is ongoing. Law enforcement investigating this case believe there may be additional victims. If you believe you have been a victim, or have information related to the crime and about the defendants, please call OCDA Supervising Investigator Eric Wiseman at 714-347-8794.
Media
The presentation from the Sept. 18, 2018, news conference containing images of the defendants is
here
.
A timeline of the investigation is available
here
.
Remarks
by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas – People v. Grant Robicheaux and Cerissa Riley News Conference On September 18, 2018 (
video
)
Remarks
by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas – People v. Grant Robicheaux and Cerissa Riley Case Update On September 21, 2018 (
video
)
Prosecutors: Senior Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Walker and Deputy District Attorney Michael Carroll
Tagged with:
Anasthesia
Assault
Assault Weapon
Cerissa Riley
Grant Robicheaux
Kidnapping
Rape
Rape by use of Drugs
Sexual Assault
Sexual Offence
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
