Gang Member Convicted of Murdering 18-year-old with Ties to Rival Gang - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Gang Member Convicted of Murdering 18-year-old with Ties to Rival Gang
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 30, 2019
Home
Press
Gang Member Convicted of Murdering 18-year-old with Ties to Rival Gang
Case #12NF1681
Gang Member Convicted of Murdering 18-year-old with Ties to Rival Gang
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A jury convicted a gang member of second-degree murder today in the 2012 shooting death of a man with ties to a rival gang in Anaheim on May 25, 2012. The same jury acquitted the getaway driver of any involvement in the murder.
Ismael Avalos, 25, of Anaheim, was found guilty of one felony count of second-degree murder, one felony count of the personal discharge of a firearm causing death, and one felony count of active participation in a criminal street gang in connection with the murder of 18-year-old Angel Rivera on May 25, 2012.
The jury found the felony special circumstances enhancement of criminal street gang activity and the felony enhancement of criminal street gang activity alleged against Avalos were not true.
Avalos faces a maximum sentence of 40 years to life plus three years in prison.
Co-defendant George Galvan, 26 of Perris, was acquitted of murder, one felony count of participating in criminal street gang activity, along with felony enhancements of criminal street activity, special circumstances of criminal street gang activity, and a the vicarious discharge of a firearm by a gang member causing great bodily injury.
“Gangs terrorize our communities and unnecessarily cost young people their entire lives, whether the victims of violence or the perpetuators of violence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are pleased that a killer is being held accountable, and will be behind bars for a very long time.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Israel Claustro is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault with Firearm
George Galvan
Ismael Avalos
Murder
Shooting
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
