San Clemente Man Sentenced to Six Years in Prison for Hate Crime Attack on African American Man - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
San Clemente Man Sentenced to Six Years in Prison for Hate Crime Attack on African American Man
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 10, 2020
Home
Press
San Clemente Man Sentenced to Six Years in Prison for Hate Crime Attack on African American Man
Case #19HF0780
San Clemente Man Sentenced to Six Years in Prison for Hate Crime Attack on African American Man
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A San Clemente man was sentenced today to six years in prison for sucker punching an African American man who was working at a Laguna Beach grocery store. The attack left him with a broken nose and severe damage to his two front teeth.
Fernando Ramirez, 23, of San Clemente, was convicted in October 2019 of one felony count of battery with serious bodily injury, one misdemeanor violation of civil rights by force, and a felony hate crime enhancement.
The 26-year-old victim was working at the Whole Foods Market in Laguna Beach on June 15, 2019 when Ramirez ran up behind him and punched him in the face. The victim did not know his attacker.
After his arrest, Ramirez went on a rant filled with racial epithets that targeted African Americans.
“Hate does not belong anywhere, but hate crimes are on the rise in Orange County and it cannot and will not be tolerated,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will continue to prosecute crimes motivated by hate to the fullest extent of the law. I want to commend Judge Leversen for taking this hateful conduct seriously and holding this individual accountable for his actions.”
Ramirez has a prior felony state prison sentence for a 2014 gang related felony assault. He was sentenced to two years in state prison for that assault.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Paul Chrisopoulos prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
battery with serious bodily injury
Fernando Ramirez
Hate Crime
violation of civil rights by force
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
