Mission Viejo Church Camp Counselor Facing Felony Sexual Assault Charges for Molesting Young Girls Under His Care - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Mission Viejo Church Camp Counselor Facing Felony Sexual Assault Charges for Molesting Young Girls Under His Care
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 26, 2019
Home
Press
Mission Viejo Church Camp Counselor Facing Felony Sexual Assault Charges for Molesting Young Girls Under His Care
Mission Viejo Church Camp Counselor Facing Felony Sexual Assault Charges for Molesting Young Girls Under His Care
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 19-year-old camp counselor has been charged with sexually assaulting two young girls during summer camp outings.
Nicolas David Cruz, 19, of Mission Viejo was arrested by the Irvine Police Department on Wednesday, July 24, 2019 at Mission Viejo Christian Church. Cruz works as a part-time camp counselor for the church where he currently works with children between eight and nine years old.
“As a parent you must be able to know your child is safe at camp,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “It is unconscionable that someone trusted to work as a camp counselor would betray that trust in order to prey on and victimize young children. My office will prosecute this case to the fullest extent of the law against this perpetrator and to warn anyone who chooses to violate children.”
Cruz has been charged with three felony counts of a lewd act on a child under the age of 14 and an allegation of multiple victims.
He is being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on August 16, 2019 in CJ1.
On the evening of Tuesday, July 23, the mother of an 8-year-old from Mission Viejo reported to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department that Cruz sexually assaulted her child during a bus ride home from a church summer camp outing in Irvine. Upon further investigation, the Irvine Police Department located an additional victim who had been sexually assaulted during a camp outing last week.
Cruz has worked for the church since December 2018, working with children between the ages of five and 11 years old.
Investigators believe there may be additional victims.
Anyone who believes their child may have been victimized is asked to call Irvine Police Detective Mudassar Mahmood at 949-724-7130 or
mmahmood@cityofirvine.org
.
This case is being prosecuted by Senior Deputy District Attorney Heidi Garrel of the Sexual Assault Unit.
Tagged with:
Camp Counselor
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Minor
Nicolas David Cruz
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
