Woman Who Verbally Threatened Middle School Students in Their Classroom Charged With Misdemeanor - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Woman Who Verbally Threatened Middle School Students in Their Classroom Charged With Misdemeanor
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 22, 2019
Home
Press
Woman Who Verbally Threatened Middle School Students in Their Classroom Charged With Misdemeanor
Case # 19HM11522
Woman Who Verbally Threatened Middle School Students in Their Classroom Charged With Misdemeanor
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Mission Viejo woman has been charged with a misdemeanor for entering a middle school classroom and verbally threatened students in front of their teacher over accusations her daughter had been bullied. The expletive-filled rant went viral after it was captured on cell phone video by one of the students.
Christian Chylyn Prince-Tinsley, 33, of Mission Viejo has been charged with one misdemeanor count of interference with the good order and administration of a school classroom with the intent to disrupt.
Prince-Tinsley is scheduled to be arraigned on November 6, 2019 at the Harbor Justice Center in Department H8 at 8:30 a.m. She faces a maximum sentence of one year in jail if convicted.
Cellphone video of the May 14, 2019 incident shows Prince-Tinsley telling her daughter’s classmates at Niguel Hills Middle School to leave her daughter alone or she will hurt their sisters, aunts and moms. Tinsley also asked the teacher to pass out a stack of tickets that read “Free A** kicking. Must be 18 or older to redeem.”
Prince-Tinsley was escorted off campus by the assistant principal after the teacher called the school office for help. Capistrano Unified School District banned her from returning to the school and the school has since adopted upgraded security safeguards to prevent unauthorized people from having access to the campus.
“Schools should be safe spaces where children can learn and thrive,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Unfortunately, schools across America have become the targets of violence. This incident was way more than an attempt to address accusations of bullying. This was a deliberate act intended to terrorize a room full of young children in the very space where they are supposed to be safe. There were lawful and appropriate ways for Prince-Tinsley to address her concerns. Sneaking on campus, entering a classroom during class, taking over the class and verbally threatening 12-14 year old students as an adult was way beyond the bounds of being a concerned parent. Everyone is concerned about school violence and threats to students and campus personnel and this act cannot go unpunished.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Denise Hernandez is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Administration of a school classroom with the intent to disrupt
Christian Chylyn Prince-Tinsley
Interference with the good order
Verbal Threat
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
