Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Killing 77-year-old Grandmother, Seriously Injuring Her Boyfriend in Wrong Way Drunk Driving - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Killing 77-year-old Grandmother, Seriously Injuring Her Boyfriend in Wrong Way Drunk Driving
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
June 17, 2021
Home
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Killing 77-year-old Grandmother, Seriously Injuring Her Boyfriend in Wrong Way Drunk Driving
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 17, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A repeat drunk driver was convicted Wednesday of hitting and killing a 77-year-old woman and seriously injuring her boyfriend when he crossed into oncoming traffic while driving on the Ortega Highway in San Juan Capistrano.
Edward James Nani, 41, of Lake Forest, was convicted by a jury of one felony count of second-degree murder, one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing injury, one felony count of driving under the influence with a blood alcohol content of .08% or more, and two felony enhancements of inflicting great bodily injury.
The jury deliberated for less than two hours before returning guilty verdicts on all counts.
Nani, who had been previously convicted of driving under the influence twice, faces a maximum sentence of 21 years to life. He is scheduled to be sentenced on August 13, 2021.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. Nani received the Watson advisement when he plead guilty in 2010 to misdemeanor counts of driving under the influence and driving under the influence with a blood alcohol content of .08% or more.
Nani also has a prior DUI conviction from 2002.
On March 31, 2018, Nani was driving on the Ortega Highway in San Juan Capistrano around 8:24 p.m. A driver behind him became so concerned with Nani’s erratic driving, including crossing into oncoming traffic, that he began recording Nani as he drove behind him. The driver called 911 to report a drunk driver, telling the dispatcher the driver was going to kill someone.
Amparo Castellon Lopez, 77, and her boyfriend, Jose Robert Pacheco, 74, were driving home from visiting Lopez’ daughter and grandchildren when they were hit by Nani’s vehicle when he crossed into oncoming traffic.
Lopez was killed and Pacheco suffered a broken arm, leg, pelvis, and ribs.
“This individual repeatedly demonstrated that he had no regard for human life and it was only a matter of time before he killed someone by getting behind the wheel intoxicated,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Getting behind the wheel while intoxicated or high or drugs is a choice and it can be a deadly choice. With bars and restaurants back open for business following the pandemic, it is more important than ever to make good choices when you drink or do drugs. If you make the choice to get behind the wheel and you kill someone while impaired, you could be charged with murder.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Edward James Nani
great bodily injury
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
