CHP Officer Charged with Using Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Provide Vehicle Information to Friend who Owned Car Registration Service - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
CHP Officer Charged with Using Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Provide Vehicle Information to Friend who Owned Car Registration Service
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
February 19, 2021
Home
Press
CHP Officer Charged with Using Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Provide Vehicle Information to Friend who Owned Car Registration Service
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 19, 2021
Case# 21CM02169
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
CHP Officer Charged with Using Confidential Law Enforcement Database to Provide Vehicle Information to Friend who Owned Car Registration Service
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A California Highway Patrol officer has been charged with using a department computer to illegally access a confidential law enforcement database to provide vehicle information to a friend who owned a car registration service.
Todd Steaffens, 43, has been charged with three misdemeanor counts of computer access and fraud and three misdemeanor counts of disclosing Department of Motor Vehicle information without authorization.
He faces a maximum sentence of three years in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all charges.
Steaffens has worked for the California Highway Patrol since 2007.
Between February 2020 and July 2020, Steaffens is accused of using a CHP computer at the Westminster office to unlawfully access the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS), which provides law enforcement access to national databases maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Motor Vehicles, and others. Any information obtained from the system can be used for official use only.
Between February 2020 and July 2020, Steaffens is accused of accessing CLETS after receiving text messages from a friend who owns Pacific Automotive Services in Los Angeles asking the officer to run the vehicle identification numbers of different vehicles he was interested in buying. Steaffens is accused of providing that information to the owner of Pacific Automotive Services.
“This conduct of misuse of an official confidential law enforcement database to run a friend’s prospective car purchase has to be about the dumbest thing an officer can do to jeopardize his career and criminal record ,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Even minor transgressions such as these must be prosecuted because they are unlawful and still rises to the level of abuse of power.”
Steaffens is scheduled to be arraigned on April 21, 2021 at the Central Justice Center in Department C54.
Deputy District Attorney Dustin Chupurdy of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
California Highway Patrol
computer access
fraud Unlawful distribution of information
Todd Steaffens
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 6 =
