Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Connection with Crash that Killed Autistic Child Riding his Bike in Costa Mesa Crosswalk - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Connection with Crash that Killed Autistic Child Riding his Bike in Costa Mesa Crosswalk
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 8, 2020
Home
Press
Convicted DUI Driver Charged with Murder in Connection with Crash that Killed Autistic Child Riding his Bike in Costa Mesa Crosswalk
Case #: 20WF2631
Parolee arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A previously convicted DUI driver was charged with murder today in connection with a crash that killed an autistic 12-year-old boy who was riding his bike through a Costa Mesa crosswalk with his father. The driver was arrested by Costa Mesa police on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs.
Richard Lavalle, 59, of Long Beach was charged with one felony count of murder in the death of 12-year-old Noel Bascon who died after being hit by an F-150 pickup truck at the intersection of Junipero Drive and Arlington Drive around 6 p.m. on Sunday, December 6, 2020.
He was previously convicted on driving under the influence in San Diego County in 2013.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. The Steve Ambriz Act, authored by then-Assembly member Todd Spitzer, requires people applying for a California driver’s license to sign a form acknowledging that they can be charged with murder if they kill someone while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
Lavelle faces a maximum sentence of 30 years to life if convicted.
“The unimaginable pain that this family is being forced to endure because of the selfish decision of a stranger is unconscionable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “I have spent decades advocating for stricter penalties for people who choose to drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Now another innocent child has paid the price for someone else’s selfish decision. I am sick and tired of my prosecutors having to go to court to file murder charges against repeat drunk and drugged drivers who have been warned about the consequences – sometimes multiple times. Taking a Sunday bike ride with your dad shouldn’t equate to a death sentence.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Murder
Richard Lavalle
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
