Former Boyfriend Convicted of Beating, Strangling Huntington Beach Woman to Death - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Boyfriend Convicted of Beating, Strangling Huntington Beach Woman to Death
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 14, 2021
Home
Press
Former Boyfriend Convicted of Beating, Strangling Huntington Beach Woman to Death
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 14, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Former Boyfriend Convicted of Beating, Strangling Huntington Beach Woman to Death
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A man has been convicted of first-degree special circumstances murder for the beating and strangling death of his ex-girlfriend. The woman had a restraining order against him at the time.
Jason Joseph Becher, 46, of Anaheim, was convicted of one felony count of first-degree murder in the December 2, 2016 death of 50-year-old Marylou Sarkissian, a mother of three, in her Huntington Beach home. The jury also found the special circumstances of lying in wait to be true.
Becher is scheduled to be sentenced on June 11, 2021 in Department C-35 at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana. He faces a maximum sentence of life without the possibility of parole.
Late the night of Dec. 1, 2016, Becher went to Sarkissian’s home in Huntington Beach after he had gone out for drinks with an acquaintance. Becher beat and strangled Sarkissian to death before leaving the home.
That afternoon an individual contacted the Huntington Beach Police Department (HBPD) to request a welfare check on Sarkissian. Huntington Beach police found Sarkissian dead inside her home.
Becher was arrested the next day by the Grants Pass Department of Public Safety in Grants Pass, Oregon.
“The facts in this case were so clear it took a jury less than a day to return a guilty verdict and hold a cold-blooded, calculating murderer accountable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The pain of losing Marylou will never go away, but her loved ones now know that justice was served.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Janine Madera is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Beating
Jason Joseph Becher
Murder
Strangling
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
