Protest Organizer Facing Attempted Murder Charge for Running over Counter-protesters with her Car During Yorba Linda Protest - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
12 min read
Protest Organizer Facing Attempted Murder Charge for Running over Counter-protesters with her Car During Yorba Linda Protest
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 20, 2021
Home
Press
Protest Organizer Facing Attempted Murder Charge for Running over Counter-protesters with her Car During Yorba Linda Protest
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 20, 2021
Case #:
21NM00352, 21NM00353, 21NF0112, 21NF0111, 21NM00421, 20NF2611
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Protest Organizer Facing Attempted Murder Charge for Running over Counter-protesters with her Car During Yorba Linda Protest Will be Charged with Beating Two Men with Rod During Seal Beach March
Tatiana Turner will be charged with a total of 13 felonies
in connection with two protests a month apart;
Five additional protesters charged with crimes related to dueling protests in Yorba Linda;
District Attorney is asking anyone with additional information to come forward
SANTA ANA, Calif. –  A Long Beach woman charged with attempted murder and multiple other felonies for running over counter-protesters with her car at a protest she helped organize last fall in Yorba Linda will now be facing charges in connection with using a deadly weapon to attack two men at another protest in Seal Beach a month before the Yorba Linda incident. The Seal Beach attack left one of the victims with injuries to his head so severe they required staples.
Tatiana Rita Turner, 40, of Long Beach, an organizer of the September 26, 2020 “March 4 Equality” protest in Yorba Linda, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, six felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon, including one causing great bodily injury, one felony count of mayhem, and two felony counts of the use of pepper spray by a felon in connection with the Yorba Linda protest.
Turner will be charged with two felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon, including one causing great bodily injury in connection with an attack on two men at a Seal Beach protest on August 29, 2020. A months-long review of video evidence resulted in Turner also facing one felony count of using a stun gun on a counter-protester during the September Yorba Linda protest.
On August 29, 2020 Turner is accused of using an approximately four-foot rod to repeatedly beat two men as they lay on the ground after being beaten by a group of protesters.
The amended complaint with the additional charges will be filed at Turner’s next court date on February 18, 2021.
Turner faces a maximum sentence of seven years to life plus 26 years in state prison if convicted on all charges. She has previous felony convictions for drug sales and domestic violence.
Five more people who attended dueling protests in Yorba Linda last fall are also now facing criminal charges following a months-long review of video evidence.
Danielle Lindgren, 44, of Corona, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of possessing a baton. Lindgren was hospitalized for several months after Turner ran over Lindgren’s head and back with her car during the September 26, 2020 protest. A second counter-protester suffered a broken leg after also being run over by Turner.
Lindgren faces a maximum sentence of one year in jail if convicted.
Cynthia Ruiz, 38, of Long Beach, has been charged with two felony counts of unlawful use of tear gas in connection with pepper spraying two men in separate attacks, including one man who was attending counter-protest with his sister and two-year-old nephew.
Ruiz is accused of attending the “March 4 Equality” protest while dressed in a black helmet, goggles, and a face mask. On two separate occasions she is accused of pepper spraying counter-protesters.
Ruiz faces a maximum sentence of 3 years and 8 months in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Kristopher Wyrick, 42, of Alpine, has been charged with one felony count of unlawful use of tear gas in connection with spraying bear spray at several protesters who got in a physical fight. The bear spray also hit another protester who was not involved in the physical altercation.
Wyrick has prior criminal convictions for drug possession, possession of drug paraphernalia and vandalism.
He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Justin Frazier, 26, of Santa Ana, attended the “March 4 Equality” protest and was videotaped wearing a catcher-style mask and a 12-inch baton that he had holstered on his hip while instructing fellow protesters on how to conduct themselves.
Frazier has been charged with one misdemeanor count of possessing a baton. He faces a maximum sentence of one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted.
Jason Matthew Mancuso, 46, of Anaheim, has been charged with one misdemeanor count of failing to disperse at the scene of a riot. He faces a maximum sentence of six months in the Orange County Jail if convicted.
Mancuso is accused of attending the “March 4 Equality” protest and ignoring multiple dispersal orders given by Orange County Sheriff’s motor and helicopter deputies. Mancuso was arrested by Sheriff’s deputies after he repeatedly paraded in front of Sheriff’s skirmish lines after the dispersal orders had been given and he refused to comply.
Mancuso has prior convictions for driving under the influence, possession of methamphetamine, resisting a peace officer, and possession of a switchblade.
The District Attorney’s Office and local law enforcement are still attempting to identify additional suspects in connection with the August 29, 2020 protest in Seal Beach and the September 26, 2020 protest in Yorba Linda. Anyone with additional information is asked to contact OC Crime Stoppers at 1-855-TIP-OCCS or
www.occrimestoppers.org
and that information will be shared with  investigators.
Ruiz, Mancuso, and Frazier were protesters in support of the “March 4 Equality” protest.  Turner was one of the organizers of the March 4 Equality” protest. Lindgren and Wyrick were counter-protesters opposing the “March 4 Equality” protest.
“We support the right to peacefully protest, but these are not peaceful protests. These are organized protests that encourage others to engage in civil disobedience and violence. We continue to review all surveillance footage to identify other suspects, regardless of what side of an issue they are on,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will prosecute anyone using force or unlawful intimidation tactics against any person or group.  Individuals who engage in violent and unlawful behavior in Orange County, regardless of their political or organizational leanings and associations, will not be tolerated and will be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law. The outrageous crimes committed recently by rioters at the U.S. Capitol building betrayed the core principles of our democracy and are a stark reminder that as Americans we will not stand for violence and lawlessness, especially when it is shamelessly disguised as the freedom of speech.”
Deputy District Attorneys Frank Acosta and Nate Barrett of Special Prosecutions are prosecuting these cases.
Tagged with:
Attempted Murder
Felony Assault
Felony Mayhem
Tatiana Rita Turner
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Shooting Rampage Sentenced to 21 years in State Prison Orange County District Attorney’s Office objected to lenient sentence, judge striking firearms enhancements and premeditation and deliberation allegations
