Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 7, 2026
Home
Press
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made 27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 7, 2026
Case #: 26CF1776
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Former Fountain Valley Police Officer Charged with Stealing Thousands of Dollars in
Court Pay for Traffic Court Appearances He Never Made
27 traffic court cases were dismissed after officer was a no-show at court hearings.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former Fountain Valley police officer has been charged with felony grand theft after he submitted timecards claiming he appeared in traffic court when in fact he was a no-show, and 27 different cases had to be dismissed because he failed to appear.
Stuart Robert Chase, 50, of Corona, has been charged with one felony count of grand theft and one felony count of filing a false claim to a government entity. He faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison.
The Fountain Valley Police Department initiated an internal affairs investigation after finding irregularities on Chase’s timecard.
The internal affairs review found that between August 4, 2021, and November 1, 2023, Chase was paid a total of $2,590.93 in overtime and comp time for 12 different court dates that he reported to his department he attended but was recorded as “not present” by the court. In addition to the 12 court dates on which he failed to appear, Chase also failed to appear in traffic court 24 times while on duty during his regularly assigned shift.
Chase has since resigned from the Fountain Valley Police Department and paid the money back in its entirety.
“Serving the public is a solemn responsibility and when a member of law enforcement willfully disregards his sworn duty to uphold the law and fulfill his obligations as a peace officer, it tarnishes the reputation of every hardworking man and woman who wear the badge,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Chase’s actions were reported to Peace Officers Standards and Training, and his certification review is pending.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Rick Majchrzak of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Special Prosecutions
Stuart Robert Chase
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Costa Mesa Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Contacting His Mistress Thousands of Times Through Text, Phone Calls, and Social Media Messages, Including More than 100 Times in a Day, Illegally Accessing Confidential Law Enforcement Databases to Track Romantic Rivals, Ex-girlfriend, and Wife
Press
County of Orange Entitled to More than $8.8 Million in Restitution as the Only Named Victim of Conspiracy Orchestrated by Former Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do and His Co-conspirators to Steal Millions in COVID-related Funds, U.S. Department of Justice Determines
Press
Moulton Niguel Water District President Duane Cave Pleads Guilty to Falsifying Nomination Paperwork to Run for Re-election when he Lied about Living within the Water District Boundaries Orange County District Attorney’s Office Demanded Cave Immediately Resign from Moulton Niguel Water District.
