Remarks by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
Remarks by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
April 10, 2009
Home
Press
Remarks by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas
April 10, 2009
Remarks by District Attorney Tony Rackauckas:
Press Conference- Andrew Gallo Charges
As the District Attorney, over the years I have seen some heart wrenching things.
They don’t get much tougher than this.
This Angel and his two friends were too young to be sent to heaven, but the defendant selfishly and recklessly got behind the wheel after getting drunk, and they didn’t have a choice.
Bad decision, blink of an eye, five lives ended, including the defendant’s.
*22-year-old rookie Angel’s pitcher Nicholas James Adenhart, dead.
* Courtney Stewart, a 20-year-old Cal State Fullerton student and former Titans cheerleader, dead.
*Henry Pearson, a 25-year-old law student with dreams of becoming a sports agent, dead.
*Jon Wilhite, a 24-year-old, former player for the Titan’s baseball team, is fighting for his life in a hospital.
Since January of this year, we have had five separate fatal DUI related car crashes in Orange County, seven dead.
So senseless.
Today, my Office filed three counts of murder against 22-year-old Andrew Thomas Gallo from San Gabriel.
We have also filed one count of driving under the influence causing injury and one count of driving with over a .08 percent blood alcohol causing injury with the sentencing enhancements that that the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury. We also filed one count of fleeing the scene of a traffic collision involving death or permanent injury.
If convicted of all counts, Mr. Gallo could spend almost 55 to life in prison.
And whether he is inside or outside a prison, he will never escape the psychological prison of shame knowing his selfish actions killed three young people in their 20s and almost killed his step-brother and another man.
Mr. Gallo was convicted of driving under the influence in May 2006 in San Bernardino County and was on probation when this crash occurred. As a result of his conviction, he was ordered to complete an alcohol education program.
The defendant has acknowledged that he knew the dangers of drinking and driving based on his participation in this alcohol program. By now, everyone should know if you drink and drive, you could potentially kill someone.
Mr. Gallo had no business being on the road early Thursday morning,
because his license had been suspended due to the DUI conviction.
At 12:23 a.m.
Mr. Gallo was driving a maroon 2004 Toyota Sienna minivan with his 21-year-old step-brother as his only passenger.
He was traveling approximately 65 miles per hour east bound on Orangethorpe Avenue. The speed limit there is 35 miles per hour.
He is accused of running a red light and crashing into Miss Stewart’s car, which then collided with a third car.
The driver of the third car sustained minimal injuries with moderate damages to his car.
Knowing that he had caused this crash, Mr. Gallo cowardly fled the scene on foot without checking on the welfare of those he had just hurt.
Within thirty minutes of the collision, approximately two miles away, on the shoulder of the 91 freeway, he was apprehended by Anaheim Police Department.
When contacted by the police, he again attempted to flee.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
