Protest Organizer Charged with Attempted Murder, Multiple Counts of Assault with a Deadly Weapon for Driving into Protesters - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Protest Organizer Charged with Attempted Murder, Multiple Counts of Assault with a Deadly Weapon for Driving into Protesters
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
September 29, 2020
Home
Press
Protest Organizer Charged with Attempted Murder, Multiple Counts of Assault with a Deadly Weapon for Driving into Protesters
Case # 20NF2611
Driver ran over woman’s head, broke man’s leg after pepper spraying two counter protesters during Yorba Linda protest; DA Spitzer warns: just stay away; peaceful protests are being exploited and capitalized to ensure violence
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A protest organizer has been charged with attempted murder, six counts of assault with a deadly weapon and multiple other felonies in connection with pepper spraying several counter protesters and then driving her car through the crowd, running over the head of one protester and breaking the leg of another, during a protest in Yorba Linda Saturday.
Tatiana Rita Turner, 40, of Long Beach, has been charged with one felony count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation, six felony counts of assault with a deadly weapon, including one causing great bodily injury, one felony count of mayhem, and two felony counts of the use of pepper spray by a felon.  Turner faces a maximum sentence of seven years to life plus 13 years and four months in state prison if convicted on all charges. She is scheduled to be arraigned in CJ1 today.
She has previous felony convictions for drug sales and domestic violence.
On September 26, 2020, Turner helped her protest group organize the March 4 Equality protest outside of the Yorba Linda Library in conjunction with other Black Lives Matter Groups. Many protesters in that group were outfitted with helmets, tactical vests, riot shields, and tasers. At the same time a larger group of President Trump supporters had also planned a rally in the same area. The two groups converged on each other and Turner is accused of pepper spraying two counter protesters during the confrontation.
Turner is accused of waving a wooden baton at protesters before getting in her car and driving through the crowd, running over the head of one woman and breaking the leg of a man. She was stopped a short while later by Sheriff’s deputies.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will not tolerate these professional militant organizers who are armed with weapons and teaching defensive tactics to counter police efforts to curb violence,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We support the right to peacefully protest, but these are not peaceful protests. These are organized protests that encourage others to engage in civil disobedience. When pepper spray and other displays of force failed, she positioned her vehicle to be used as a backup weapon and she used that vehicle as a deadly weapon, willing to injure and kill those who stood in her way. She then tried to evade a pursuit until stopped. We are reviewing all surveillance footage to identify other suspects, regardless of what side of the political aisle they are on. We will prosecute anyone using force or unlawful intimidation tactics against any person or group. My advice: stay away from these events. They are not intended to be peaceful. Despite the best of intentions, there are now participants who are there for the sole purpose of escalating to unlawful violence, which is no doubt going to result in injuries, possible deaths, arrests and prosecutions. While we will always defend the right to peacefully protest, I am urging you to just stay away.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault with Deadly Weapon
Attempted Murder
Tatiana Rita Turner
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Press
Hate Crime Charges Added Against Las Vegas Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murder, Lying in Wait in Laguna Woods Church Shooting That Left One Dead, Five Wounded
Press
Man Who Attempted to Kill Police Officer, Woman during Hours-Long Costa Mesa Shooting Rampage Sentenced to 21 years in State Prison Orange County District Attorney’s Office objected to lenient sentence, judge striking firearms enhancements and premeditation and deliberation allegations
