Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 12, 2024
Home
Press
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering 6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 12, 2024
Case # 21CF1703
PRESS RELEASE
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Costa Mesa Man Sentenced to 40 Years to Life in Prison for Murdering
6-Year-Old Aiden Leos in 55 Freeway Shooting
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 27-year-old Costa Mesa man was sentenced today to 40 years to life in state prison for murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos when he shot the little boy while he was riding in his car seat in the back seat of his mother’s car while on the way to kindergarten on the 55 Freeway in May 2021.
A jury convicted Marcus Anthony Eriz of Costa Mesa in January of one felony count of second-degree murder, one felony count of shooting into an occupied vehicle, and two felony enhancements of the personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death.
“The depth of pain of a mother desperately trying to find some way to help her little boy as he lay dying is excruciating,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The day Aiden was murdered, his car seat meant to protect him from violent car crashes couldn’t protect him from the bullet that ripped through the back of his car seat and through his heart. The actions Marcus Eriz took were his and his alone and as a result of those actions Aiden’s loved ones will never again hear Aiden’s laughs, see his smiles, or feel his hugs. Marcus Eriz pulled out his gun and fired it into a moving car because he wanted to world to know what he was capable of – and what he took was the life of a little six-year-old boy and the sense of security of drivers everywhere who worry that driving on our freeways could be a death sentence, not because of a crash but because of a bullet. I am grateful Judge King realized that this wasn’t a horrible mistake; this is a cold-blooded murder who is more focused on his life after prison rather than the little boy whose life he ended before it even began.”
Just after 8 a.m. on May 21, 2021, Aiden was on his way to kindergarten at Calvary Chapel in Yorba Linda in the back seat of his mother’s car. Aiden’s mother was driving northbound on the 55 Freeway near Chapman Avenue in Orange when she flipped off the driver of a Volkswagen Sportswagen after the driver cut her off.
After driving away, she said she heard a large noise and heard her son say, “ow,” before pulling over on the side of the freeway and getting Aiden out of his car seat and calling 911. Eriz, who was in the rear seat of the Volkswagen, had loaded a handgun, opened a window and shot at the mother’s vehicle, piercing it and striking Aiden.
Aiden later died at Children’s Hospital of Orange County (CHOC) in Orange.
The driver of the Volkswagen, 26-year-old Wynne Lee of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of accessory after the fact and one misdemeanor count of having a concealed firearm in a vehicle. She faces a maximum sentence of three years in state prison and one year in the Orange County Jail if convicted of both counts.  She is awaiting trial and remains out of custody on GPS monitoring after posting $100,000 bond in July 2021.
After Aiden was murdered, the California Highway Patrol launched an intense manhunt for the shooter that spanned Southern California, including issuing a public plea for tips about the whereabouts of the suspects’ vehicle.
Eriz and Lee were arrested by CHP officers on June 6, 2021.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for Full Press Release
###
Tagged with:
Aiden Leos
Marcus Anthony Eriz
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Costa Mesa Man Convicted of Murdering 6-year-old Aiden Leos in Shooting on 55 Freeway
Press
Costa Mesa Couple will go to Trial in Murder of 6-year-old Aiden Leos During Road Rage Incident on 55 Freeway, Judge Orders
Press
Authorities Asking for Public’s Help in Finding Other Firearm Brandishing Incidents Involving Suspects in 6-year-old’s Murder
