California Supreme Court Rules Human Traffickers Can Face Maximum Sentence Even if Law Enforcement Posed as Minors - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
California Supreme Court Rules Human Traffickers Can Face Maximum Sentence Even if Law Enforcement Posed as Minors
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
December 28, 2020
Home
Press
California Supreme Court Rules Human Traffickers Can Face Maximum Sentence Even if Law Enforcement Posed as Minors
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 28, 2020
Case #: S258143
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
California Supreme Court Rules Human Traffickers Can Face
Maximum Sentence Even if Law Enforcement Posed as Minors
Orange County District Attorney invited Supreme Court to review case;
decision will help protect California children from predators
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Human traffickers who believe they are communicating with a child instead of an undercover officer in an attempt to prostitute that child can face the maximum sentence allowed by California human trafficking law, the California Supreme Court ruled today.
The Supreme Court reversed the Fourth District Court of Appeal (DCA) decision in
People v. Antonio Chavez Moses III.
A jury convicted Antonio Chavez Moses III (16NF1413) of a violation of PC 236.1(c) where he attempted to traffic a minor who was actually an adult undercover officer.
In a published opinion, Judge Thomas J. Goethals reversed that conviction holding that the defendant could only have been convicted of a lesser charge given that the person Moses was targeting was an undercover police officer and not actually a minor.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office sent a letter to the California Supreme Court asking the Court to review the case on its own, and the Supreme Court accepted that invitation.
In November 2012, California voters overwhelmingly passed Proposition 35 – Ban on Human Trafficking and Sex Slavery. Eighty-one percent of the voters supported Proposition 35 which increased prison sentences for human traffickers.
“We believed in this law all along, and we believed in the intent of California’s voters to increase penalties for human trafficking, including those who prey on children,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has been unwavering in its commitment to investigating and prosecuting human traffickers and protecting our children. The California Supreme Court unanimously interpreted a voter initiative in the way it was intended – to allow law enforcement to continue to have the strongest tools possible to combat child predators. Children across California will be safer as a result.”
Under Proposition 35, human traffickers can be sentenced to a maximum 12 years in state prison for completing the act of prostituting a minor. The Fourth District Court of Appeal ruled that because there was never a minor actually involved Moses could only be sentenced to a maximum sentence of six years in state prison.
The Supreme Court disagreed, stating “The electorate’s intent to ensure just and effective punishment of child predators is demonstrated by section 236.1, subdivision (f), which holds the defendant liable for targeting an actual minor victim even if the defendant believes the victim is an adult. There is no reason to conclude from the ballot materials that the electorate intended to impose lesser punishment on a defendant who intentionally targets a minor but fails in the attempt because the target is actually an adult. Given the initiative’s stated purpose, it is more reasonable to conclude that section 236.1(c) operates as a one-way ratchet to increase punishment for both such offenders.”
The California Supreme Court opinion can be found here:
https://www.courts.ca.gov/opinions/documents/S258143.PDF
Tagged with:
Human Trafficking of Minor
Supreme court ruling
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Supreme Court Ruling Protecting LGBTQ Workers
Press
MAN SENTENCED TO 23 YEARS TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR TRAFFICKING, PIMPING, AND PANDERING 13-YEAR-OLD GIRL IN ORANGE COUNTY
Press
MINNESOTA MAN ARRAIGNED FOR HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND ATTEMPTED PIMPING OF TWO FICTITIOUS MINORS HE MET THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA
