Garden Grove Police Officer Charged with Battering, Threatening Homeless People while on Duty - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Garden Grove Police Officer Charged with Battering, Threatening Homeless People while on Duty
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
June 9, 2021
Home
Press
Garden Grove Police Officer Charged with Battering, Threatening Homeless People while on Duty
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: June 9, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Garden Grove Police Officer Charged with
Battering, Threatening Homeless People while on Duty
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Garden Grove police officer has been charged with threatening and battering homeless people while on duty, including hitting a man in the back of his head and pulling his hair while the man’s hands were handcuffed behind him.
Garden Grove Police Officer Kevin Dinh has been charged with two misdemeanor counts of unlawful beating by a police officer, two misdemeanor counts of simple battery, and four misdemeanor counts of attempted criminal threats.
He faces a maximum sentence of four years in the Orange County Jail if convicted on all counts. Dinh, a 12-year-veteran of the Garden Grove Police Department, is currently on administrative leave.
On September 20, 2020, Dinh was dispatched along with another officer to a restaurant regarding homeless individuals refusing to leave the front of the business. Dinh is accused of striking one of the men in the back of his head while holding his hands above his head and then twisting the man’s hands while holding them behind his back. He is also accused of threatening to knock the man’s teeth out if he sees him again.
On October 18, 2020, Dinh and two other officers were dispatched to an OCTA bus stop to investigate a package theft from a nearby home. Dinh is accused of striking the handcuffed suspect’s head, grabbing his hair and pulling, while saying something to him. The suspect was eventually uncuffed and released.
Both incidents were captured on body worn cameras.
“The public has the expectation that its law enforcement officers treat everyone with dignity and respect,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Abusing the color of authority to exert unlawful force or to attempt to instill fear in detained suspects is not how the overwhelming majority of police officers conduct themselves, and when officers cross the line into criminal behavior, they will be held accountable.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dawn Vargas-Kaliban of Special Prosecutions is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Battery
Criminal threats
Kevin Dinh
Unlawful Beating by Police
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Mother Who Instructed Teenage Daughter to Punch Rival Player During a Youth Basketball Game Ordered to Pay Victim More than $9,000, Write Apology Letter - Woman Charged with Contributing to Delinquency of a Minor, Battery Banned from Attending Basketball Games until she Completes Anger Management Classes
Press
Third-Striker from Los Angeles Charged with Extortion, Assault with Firearm in Connection with Attacks on Newport Beach Woman
Press
Man Who Punched Two Medical Assistants at Vaccination Clinic, and Groped Nurse- Charged With Battery, Resisting Arrest
