Orange County Judge Reduces Felony Animal Cruelty Charge to Misdemeanor for Man Caught on Video Kicking and Punching His Labradoodle, Allows Defendant to Avoid Jail Time  - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County Judge Reduces Felony Animal Cruelty Charge to  Misdemeanor for Man Caught on Video Kicking and Punching His Labradoodle, Allows Defendant to Avoid Jail Time
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
September 6, 2023
Home
Press
Orange County Judge Reduces Felony Animal Cruelty Charge to  Misdemeanor for Man Caught on Video Kicking and Punching His Labradoodle, Allows Defendant to Avoid Jail Time
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: Sept. 6, 2023
Case #: 22NF2421
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County Judge Reduces Felony Animal Cruelty Charge to
Misdemeanor for Man Caught on Video Kicking and Punching His Labradoodle, Allows Defendant to Avoid Jail Time
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County judge reduced a felony charge of animal cruelty to a misdemeanor today for a man captured on video kicking and hitting a Labradoodle named “Steeler,” and allowed the defendant to avoid jail time.
Albert Frank Abad, Jr., 34, accepted a court offer from Orange County Superior Court Judge Justin Glenn-Leistikow to plead guilty to one misdemeanor count of animal cruelty and be placed on one year of formal probation and ordered not to own any animals. Prosecutors had sought jail time for the attack.
On or about Sept. 15, 2022, a man later identified as Abad was captured on doorbell video kicking and hitting the Labradoodle, then dragging the dog down the hallway of an Anaheim apartment hallway. About a week after the video of the attack was released on social media, Abad surrendered Steeler to a Los Angeles animal hospital. He subsequently turned himself in to the Anaheim Police Department where he was booked on an arrest warrant.
Steeler was transferred to Orange County Animal Care and has since been placed with an out-of-state, nonprofit animal rescue organization.
“The love of a dog is unconditional and to betray that trust is truly disgusting,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Judges have the ability under the law to reduce certain felonies to misdemeanors, but it is shocking that Judge Glenn-Leistikow would exercise that discretion to give a break to someone who clearly has no issue engaging in cruelty to a vulnerable animal.  No animal should be subjected to brutality at the hand of their owner and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office remains committed to holding animal abusers accountable to the fullest extent of the law.”
Deputy District Attorney Danica Drotman of the Consumer and Environmental Protection Unit prosecuted the case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Albert Frank Abad
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 2 =
