The People of CA v. Joseph James DeAngelo - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
The People of CA v. Joseph James DeAngelo
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 19, 2020
Home
Press
The People of CA v. Joseph James DeAngelo
Case # 18FE008017
The People of CA v. Joseph James DeAngelo
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Sacramento Superior Court issued the following information regarding an upcoming hearing in the matter of the People v. Joseph James De Angelo #18FE008017. A hearing is presently set for the following:
Date:
Monday, June 29, 2020
Time:
9:30 am
Place:
Sacramento Superior Court – Exact Location to be Determined
Assigned:
Honorable Michael Bowman
For members of the media who would like to attend in person and record the proceedings, media request forms must be submitted to the Sacramento Superior Court no later than, Monday June 22, 2020, close of business.
The Media Request to Photograph, Record, or Broadcast (MC-500) and Order on Media Request to Permit Coverage (MC-510) must be submitted to the Public Information Officer at
sscpio@saccourt.ca.gov
for consideration.
If the request forms have already been submitted, there is no need to resubmit.
Seating is being pre-arranged for the victims in this case. Members of the general public will be afforded the opportunity to attend the proceedings in person, as well. Public seating will be limited.
If you have interest in attending in person, please submit your name and contact information to the Public Information Officer at
sscpio@saccourt.ca.gov
by noon on Friday, June 26, 2020.
Selected attendees will be drawn by lottery and you will be notified by the Public Information Officer.
The hearing set for Monday, June 29 will also be live-streamed to YouTube. The live streaming channel can be accessed at
https://www.saccourt.ca.gov/criminal/hearinglivestreams.aspx
.
All members of the public entering the facility will be subject to a no contact temperature screening and required to wear a face covering. Social distancing practices will also be enforced.
Tagged with:
Burglary
Crime Spree
Joseph James DeAngelo Jr
Kidnapping
Murder
Rape
Robbery
Serial Killer
the East Area Rapist
the Golden State Killer.
the Original Night Stalker
the Visalia Ransacker
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
