Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Off-Duty Costa Mesa Fire Captain - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of  Off-Duty Costa Mesa Fire Captain
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
December 10, 2021
Home
Press
Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of  Off-Duty Costa Mesa Fire Captain
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: December 10, 2021
Case #18HF1525
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
28-year-old driver was under the influence of narcotics
when he hit and killed firefighter riding his bike in Mission Viejo
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 28-year-old man was sentenced to 15 years to life today for hitting and killing an off-duty Costa Mesa fire captain who was riding his bicycle on a sidewalk in November 2018. The driver was under the influence of narcotics at the time.
Stephen Taylor Scarpa, 28, of Mission Viejo, was convicted of one felony count of second-degree murder for killing Mike Kreza, 44, of Mission Viejo, on September 8, 2021.
On November 3, 2018, at approximately 8:00 a.m., Scarpa was driving eastbound on Alicia Parkway in Mission Viejo when he drove off the road near Alicia Parkway and Via Burgos. He crossed over the bike lane and onto the sidewalk where he struck Kreza who was riding his bicycle.
Kreza, who spent 18 years as a firefighter with the Costa Mesa Fire Department, was taken to a local hospital where he died two days after being hit. Scarpa admitted to driving after having spent the prior three days ingesting controlled substances.
As a student at Esperanza High School in Anaheim, Scarpa participated in the “Every 15 Minutes” program hosted by the Brea Police Department and the Anaheim Fire Department to warn students about the dangers of driving under the influence. As part of the program, Scarpa was selected to be one of the students “killed” by an impaired driver. He was removed from the classroom, his obituary was read to his fellow students, and he was taken to an off-site location with the other students “killed” by impaired drivers to hear testimonials from people whose lives had been impacted by driving under the influence collisions. The District Attorney’s Office used that program experience to prove that Scarpa understood the dangers of driving under the influence and its potentially deadly consequences.
Kreza’s wife, his three daughters, and his sister gave victim impact statements in court today, describing how their lives have been devastated by his death, including his youngest daughter talked about having to take a teddy bear to school to comfort her until she got better, but that she never got better.
“Mike Kreza’s wife and his three young daughters have to live every day with the pain of his loss, and the pain they bravely expressed during their victim impact statements should haunt the defendant forever,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Nothing will bring Mike back, but I can only hope that his story – and the pain his family has to live with every day – prevents someone from making the same deadly decision to get behind the wheel while drunk or high on drugs.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Dan Feldman of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
###
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Murder
Stephen Taylor Scarpa
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
