Jury Finds Irvine Man Was Sane When He Stabbed His Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in Their Anaheim Apartment in 2022 - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Jury Finds Irvine Man Was Sane When He Stabbed His Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in Their Anaheim Apartment in 2022
Author
Justin Yun
Published
May 7, 2026
Home
Press
Jury Finds Irvine Man Was Sane When He Stabbed His Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in Their Anaheim Apartment in 2022
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 7, 2026
Case #22NF1025
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Jury Finds Irvine Man Was Sane When He Stabbed His Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in Their Anaheim Apartment in 2022
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A jury has found that an Irvine man was sane when he ambushed his co-worker at his Anaheim apartment and stabbed him to death and then pushed through the bathroom door and repeatedly stabbed his co-worker’s roommate who was on the phone with 911 calling for help, killing him.
Ramy Hany Mounir Fahim, 30, pleaded guilty last month to the special circumstances murder of 23-year-old Griffin Cuomo and Cuomo’s roommate, 23-year-old Jonathan Bahm, inside their Stadium House apartment on April 19, 2022. Cuomo and Fahim worked together at Pence Wealth Management, an Orange County wealth management company.  Fahim had also previously entered a not guilty by reason of insanity plea which necessitated the trial to determine whether he was legally insane at the time he committed the murders.
In addition to pleading guilty to two counts of first-degree murder, Fahim admitted special circumstance allegations of lying in wait, multiple murders, and murder to avoid arrest as it related to the killing of Jonathan Bahm.  Fahim also admitted to a personal use of a deadly weapon enhancement.
As a result of the jury’s determination Fahim was sane when he committed the special circumstance murders, he will be sentenced to two consecutive sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole.
A building security guard had encountered Fahim on the apartment complex’ roof at midnight on April 18, 2022, just hours before the murders. Fahim was seen on the same floor of the victims’ apartment the morning of the murders.
On April 19, 2022, Anaheim police responded to a 911 call reporting an assault at Stadium House apartments in the 2100 block of Katella Avenue, near State College Boulevard, around 6:50 a.m.
Fahim was still inside the victims’ apartment when Anaheim police responded to the 911 call. Cuomo and Bahm were pronounced dead at the scene, and Fahim was hospitalized with minor injuries before being arrested on suspicion of murder.
“The violence carried out in that apartment was not an act of insanity. He carefully calculated how to gain access to his victims’ apartment building, waiting for hours on the roof until he had the perfect opportunity to ambush his victim and execute a witness in the hopes of getting away with all of it,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “A mental illness defense should not be used as an attempt to escape accountability by defendants who were very much sane when they engaged in horrific acts of violence and when we have the facts to refute those claims of insanity, we will ensure justice is served.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jeff Moore of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Homicide Unit
Ramy Hany Mounir Fahim
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
