26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
April 22, 2022
Home
Press
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  April 22, 2022
Case#22NF1025
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 26-year-old man has been charged with special circumstances murders for stabbing his co-worker to death and then stabbing his co-worker’s roommate to death in their Anaheim apartment early Tuesday morning. The special circumstances of lying in wait and multiple murders make him eligible for the death penalty.
Ramy Hany Mounir Fahim, 26, of Irvine, has been charged with two counts of murder, and two enhancements each of lying in wait, multiple murders, and the personal use of a deadly weapon.
Fahim is accused of stabbing his co-worker, 23-year-old Griffin Cuomo, to death and then stabbing Cuomo’s roommate, 23-year-old Jonathan Bahm, to death in their Katella Avenue apartment in Anaheim at around 6:30 a.m. on April 19, 2022.  Cuomo and Fahim worked together at an Orange County wealth management company.
Fahim is currently being held without bail at the Intake Release Center. He is scheduled to be arraigned on May 6, 2022 at the North Justice Center in Fullerton.
A building security guard had encountered Fahim on the apartment complex’ roof at midnight on April 18, 2022, just hours before the murders. Fahim was seen on the same floor of the victims’ apartment the morning of the murders.
Fahim was still inside the victims’ apartment when Anaheim police responded to a 911 call.
“These young men were just starting to live out their dreams and find their places in the world. But an intruder who stalked them and then slashed them to death in their own home interrupted those dreams,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The callous way that two young lives were ended cannot be ignored and we will do everything we can to ensure justice is served.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jeff Moore of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
to view the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Lying in Wait
Murder
Personal use of Deadly Weapon
Ramy Hany Mounir Fahim
Stabbing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Jury Finds Irvine Man Was Sane When He Stabbed His Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in Their Anaheim Apartment in 2022
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
