District Attorney Spitzer Issues Statement Regarding Outside Counsel Investigation - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
District Attorney Spitzer Issues Statement Regarding Outside Counsel Investigation
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
May 7, 2021
Home
Press
District Attorney Spitzer Issues Statement Regarding Outside Counsel Investigation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: May 7, 2021
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
District Attorney Spitzer Issues Statement Regarding Outside Counsel Investigation
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued the following statement today:
An independent outside law firm hired by the County’s CEO conducted an investigation and concluded what the Orange County District Attorney’s Office had previously uncovered and disclosed to the County: a former OCDA manager sexually harassed several female prosecutors in the office.
The independent investigation concluded that in response to learning of these allegations, the OCDA responded promptly, appropriately, and no employee was subjected to retaliation.
As soon as allegations of misconduct and inappropriate behavior came to our attention, we initiated an immediate investigation with OCDA HR. This fact is indisputable and is confirmed by the report.
The employee accused of harassment was immediately put on leave after an initial investigation by OCDA and consultation and direction by County HR and EEO. The employee chose to submit his resignation the same day after being placed on Administrative Leave.
I have been unequivocally clear that I never personally witnessed the alleged behavior or anything similar during my interactions with this former employee or was I ever told of any such behavior. Had I been aware of these allegations at any time, I would have taken swift and decisive action.
We can now once and for all put to rest the false perception that I or my Senior Executives had any knowledge of these disgusting acts prior to any witnesses coming forward.
I am sickened by this manager’s offensive and base behavior. No one should have to suffer in silence and these prosecutors will be protected by me and my office. I am further incensed and enraged that the manager engaged in discrimination and harassment against others.
Office-wide anti-harassment trainings of all staff and additional training for managers has been an on-going state law requirement. We have ensured that all attorneys and employees have been trained and are encouraged to report misconduct at multiple levels: to their managers, their unions, the EEO and County and OCDA HR depending on the comfort level of the employee.
I subscribe to these core beliefs and have upheld them every day of my professional career for more than three decades:
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office does not tolerate harassment of any kind in the workplace. We have and will continue to support anyone who believes he or she has been harassed.
I have an established track record of holding employees accountable regardless of any pre-existing relationship they may have with me.
Any allegation of harassment in the workplace – irrespective of the timing, potential motive, or interpersonal relationships – has and will continue to be fully and thoroughly investigated by my office.
For the last 30 years as a public servant, I have refused to tolerate harassment and racism in the workplace – and I refuse to tolerate it now. That is not rhetoric; it is a fact.
###
Tagged with:
Media Advisory
Statement
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 1 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
