Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Assault Victim of Murder Charges - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Assault Victim of Murder Charges
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 11, 2020
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Clears Assault Victim of Murder Charges
Case # 17WF0608
Woman had been Charged with Stabbing Attacker to Death
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer has dismissed murder charges against a woman who was assaulted by the man she ended up killing. New evidence discovered during the course of the investigation into this case revealed Angelovic had acted in self-defense.
On March 14, 2017, 21-year-old Amber Angelovic was charged with one felony count of murder and an enhancement of the personal use of a weapon for killing 32-year-old Derek Valentine inside Valentine’s Costa Mesa home.
On March 11, 2017, Angelovic and Valentine took an Uber to Valentine’s home after a night of drinking at a Costa Mesa bar. The two had been on one date prior to that night.
She called 9-1-1 from Valentine’s bedroom to report that Valentine prevented her from leaving and began hitting her in the face and throwing her down.
Fearing that she would be raped or killed, Angelovic said she grabbed a knife which she carries for personal protection and engaged in a self-defense drill she learned in a self-defense class.
Costa Mesa police officers found Valentine dead at the bottom of the stairs with two stab wounds to his chest.
A search of Valentine’s home revealed drug paraphernalia, books on how to get women to have sex with you, a white board with handwritten notes about how to stalk women, and numerous text messages in which he denigrates women and discussions about overcoming women’s will to have sex.
A search of his computer also revealed internet searches for date rape drugs.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Heather Brown appeared in court on February 10, 2020 to ask the court to dismiss the charges.
“The People have obtained additional evidence and are now convinced Ms. Angelovic had a lawful right to self-defense and therefore are unable to proceed,” said Brown. “The People are making a motion to dismiss based on lack of sufficient evidence and in the interest of justice.”
“The decision to dismiss criminal charges – especially charges that involve the death of a person – is not a decision that is made lightly,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “As prosecutors we must not only consider the evidence; we must also consider all possible defenses. After a thorough review and careful consideration there is insufficient evidence in this case to prove murder beyond a reasonable doubt. It is for that reason – and that reason alone – that I am requested these charges be dismissed.”
The District Attorney’s Office obtained express permission from Angelovic and her attorney John Barnett to identify her as an assault victim.
Tagged with:
Amber Angelovic
Self Defense
Victim
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
District Attorney’s Office Releases Letter to Victim’s Attorney Regarding Case Disposition in the Death of Scott Clark
