Man who Threw Injured Cat in Mission Viejo Dumpster with Broken Jaw, Concussion Charged with Animal Cruelty, Abandoning Animal - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man who Threw Injured Cat in Mission Viejo Dumpster with Broken Jaw, Concussion Charged with Animal Cruelty, Abandoning Animal
Author
Chase Healy
Published
March 17, 2025
Home
Press
Man who Threw Injured Cat in Mission Viejo Dumpster with Broken Jaw, Concussion Charged with Animal Cruelty, Abandoning Animal
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 17, 2025
Case #: 25HF0671
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man who Threw Injured Cat in Mission Viejo Dumpster with Broken Jaw,
Concussion
Charged with Animal Cruelty, Abandoning Animal
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Mission Viejo man has been charged with felony animal cruelty after he was captured on surveillance video throwing an obviously injured cat inside a trash bag into a dumpster. The cat was suffering from a broken jaw, broken blood vessels in her eye, a concussion, and a badly swollen eye when she was rescued just before the dumpster was scheduled to be emptied.
Joseph Harrison Parker, 58, of Mission Viejo, pleaded not guilty on March 14, 2025, to one felony count of animal cruelty and one misdemeanor count of abandoning a domestic dog or cat. Prosecutors successfully objected to a request by the Public Defender’s Office to have Parker released on his own recognizance. Despite objections from prosecutors, Orange County Superior Court Commissioner Sheri Sandecki reduced Parker’s bail from the statutory $20,000 to $2,000. Parker posted bail over the weekend and was released.
He faces a maximum sentence of three years state prison, which is served in local jail pursuant to PC 1170(h).
Mission Viejo Animal Services received a report on Tuesday, March 11, 2025, about a cat “suffering from obvious trauma.”
Surveillance video in the area showed a light blue or gray Volkswagen Tiguan parking near a dumpster around 7:20 p.m. near Cabot and La Paz Road in Laguna Hills. A man is then seen getting out of the vehicle, carrying a white garbage bag, and tossing it into the dumpster.
Parker was arrested after his roommate identified him as being the individual pictured in the surveillance video and the cat as her cat, BooBoo.
The cat, who was named Willow by veterinary staff, underwent surgery to repair her broken jaw and is slowly improving.
“Only someone who is truly depraved would make the decision to abuse an animal who has no way to protect itself,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The abuse of any defenseless animal will not be tolerated and those who engage in violence against animals will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Enviromental
Joseph Harrison Parker
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Irvine Dog Trainer Charged with Animal Cruelty, Destruction of Evidence in Connection with Deaths of 11 Dogs Trainers’ girlfriend charged with assisting in cover-up, destroying evidence by dropping off dogs to be cremated
Press
Santa Ana Man Accused of Luring Cats with Food to Kidnap and Stomp and Beat Them to Death Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty, Felony Theft of a Companion Animal
