Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence – Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 27, 2025
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence – Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 15, 2024
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives
$3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a
new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement
Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office (OCDA) is proud to announce that it has been once again chosen by the California Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) to serve as the statewide traffic safety training agency in an ongoing effort to combat drugged and drunk driving across California. This year’s $3.3 million in OTS grants will provide the OCDA with an exciting opportunity to roll out its new multi-day impaired driving course that will provide new law enforcement officers across California with cutting edge training to learn the basics of identifying drunk and drugged drivers.
The number of drug-impaired driving cases investigated and prosecuted across California significantly increased in the wake of the state’s 2016 decriminalization of marijuana.
OTS has awarded the OCDA two grants totaling $3.3 million to fund the office’s Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driver Vertical Prosecution Program, which dedicates eight prosecutors and one investigator to prosecuting drugged and drunk driving cases, as well as continue the California Traffic Safety Resource Prosecutor (TSRP) Training Network, which trains California law enforcement and prosecutors on how to effectively prosecute driving under the influence of drugs cases.
OCDA, led by Chief Assistant District Attorney Keith Bogardus, recently created the Drug and Alcohol Enforcement Program (DAE-Light), a four day in-person interactive training program designed for new law enforcement officers to learn the basics of recognizing and identifying drunk and drug impaired drivers. This year’s additional funds will pay for another prosecutor as well as a Drug Recognition Expert (DRE)-trained District Attorney Investigator to administer the Peace Officer Standards and Training approved class.
“Drugged and drunk driving has reached crisis levels here in Orange County and throughout California – and innocent people are dying,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “I’m incredibly proud of the innovation and dedication my prosecutors, investigators, and support staff demonstrate every day in helping to curb this deadly epidemic and save lives. By taking the statewide lead in providing police officers and prosecutors with cutting edge training, we are holding drugged and drunk drivers accountable and make California streets safer.”
This year, OCDA was awarded $1,524,803 for the Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driver Vertical Prosecution Program and $1,757,638 for the California Traffic Safety Resource Prosecutor Training Network.
The TSRP Training Network focuses on providing resources and education statewide to law enforcement, prosecutors, and toxicologists to effectively keep communities safe with innovative training for personnel involved with DUID cases.
In 2011, OCDA developed a multi-agency collaborative driving under the influence of drugs (DUID) prosecution, investigation and toxicology model which has served as the innovative foundation to develop a statewide program.
In October 2016, OCDA expanded its traffic safety training role to the Southern California region, serving as the lead agency in prosecution and law enforcement training. This includes the delivery of live training, roundtables, training videos, and legal updates. In 2017, OCDA began to develop a statewide training program through its administration of the TSRP Training Network. As part of this process, OCDA has begun to align law enforcement and prosecution agencies throughout the state to create a massive statewide training, resource and education network. This responsibility offers agencies throughout the state the opportunity to share expertise in traffic safety as the OCDA works in partnership to proactively investigate and prosecute traffic related crimes, increasing public safety in all jurisdictions throughout California.
As part of these OTS grants, OCDA maintains eight vertical DUID prosecutors assigned to handle cases from beginning to end throughout Orange County. These deputy district attorneys review, file and prosecute nearly all drug-impaired driving cases filed in Orange County. Additionally, OTS has provided funds for a full-time drug recognition expert who will be available to the Orange County DUID vertical prosecutors for training, consultation, and courtroom testimony.
OCDA prosecutors filed charges on more than 850 DUID and combination cases submitted by police agencies and secured more than 300 convictions in DUID and combination cases during 2021.
The eight vertical DUID prosecutors currently assigned to the program are Deputy District Attorneys Summer Young and Jay Woraratanadharm of Central Justice Center, Norman Zeledon and Blake Cushing of West Justice Center, Monica Kweon and Mason Bartlett of Harbor Justice Center, and Sonia Concepcion and Dina Gawad of North Justice Center. The vertical DUID prosecutors program is aimed to create subject matter experts within the office to be able to hold more people accountable who are alcohol and/or drug impaired drivers. This program additionally gathers data to track impaired driving trends to provide information to other law enforcement agencies and toxicologists to effectively prosecute offenders.
The Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driver Vertical Prosecution Program grant is overseen by Senior Assistant District Attorney Suzie Price and Assistant District Attorney Brock Zimmon. The TSRP Training Network grant is under the supervision of Chief Assistant District Attorney Keith Bogardus and ADA Zimmon. The TSRP team consists of three Deputy District Attorneys and two Drug Recognition Expert Investigators.
Funding for this program was provided by a grant from the California Office of Traffic Safety through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Click here
for Full Press Release.
###
Tagged with:
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.9 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
