Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
August 24, 2022
Home
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 24, 2022
Case #: 17HF1368
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole
plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for
Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 31-year-old man was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole plus 84 years and four months to life for shooting his father and his father’s girlfriend to death and attempting to kill two roommates in the family’s Aliso Viejo home after his father told him to stop drinking beer and get a job.
Luke William Ferguson, 31, was convicted last month of two felony counts of first-degree murder and two felony counts of attempted murder in the October 12, 2017 shooting, along with three felony enhancements that he personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death and special circumstance allegations of multiple murders.
After Douglas Ferguson, 59, came home from work on October 12, 2017, Luke Ferguson came down the stairs with a handgun and shot his father without saying a word. After his father stood up, Ferguson shot him again. He then shot Todd Kuchar, who was renting a room in the home, multiple times as Kuchar ran out of the condo.
Luke Ferguson then shot his father’s girlfriend Lisa Cosenza, 51, in the head before heading upstairs, kicking a bathroom door down and shooting roommate Brandon Dufault several times while he was in the shower.
Kuchar and Dufault survived.
Luke Ferguson escaped in Dufault’s vehicle but was later arrested after a police pursuit in Inglewood with another gun he had stolen from his father.
“This murderous rampage targeted everyone and anyone in his way and even went out of his way to try to kill everyone in that house,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Luke Ferguson is a cold-blooded murderer and he will spend the rest of his life in prison where he will no longer be able to harm innocent people.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Walker of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Aliso Viejo
Attempted Murder
Luke William Ferguson
Murder
Shooting
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Murder in Street Racing Crash that Killed Innocent Driver
