Laguna Beach Man Charged with Killing Mother - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Laguna Beach Man Charged with Killing Mother
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 21, 2019
Home
Press
Laguna Beach Man Charged with Killing Mother
Case #19HF1136
Laguna Beach Man Charged with Killing Mother
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 34-year-old Laguna Beach man was charged with killing his mother inside their home.
Matthew Bryson McDonald has been charged with one felony count of murder with an enhancement with personal use of a knife.
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all charges. McDonald does not have a prior criminal history.
He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail on $1 million bail.
McDonald was arrested on August 18, 2019 shortly after the body of 61-year-old Megan Hampton was discovered by a friend who stopped at the home to pick her up for church.
“The Orange County District Attorney’s Office extends its deepest sympathies to the loved ones of Megan Hampton,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Eric Scarbrough is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Matthew Bryson McDonald
Murder
Personal use of a Knife
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
