Man Charged with Hate Crime in Skateboard Attack on Transgender Woman - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
Man Charged with Hate Crime in Skateboard Attack on Transgender Woman
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
March 12, 2021
Home
Press
Man Charged with Hate Crime in Skateboard Attack on Transgender Woman
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 12, 2021
Case # 21WF0592
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Man Charged with Hate Crime in Skateboard Attack on Transgender Woman
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 23-year-old man has been charged with a hate crime for attacking a transgender woman with a skateboard in Costa Mesa after using a derogatory epithet disparaging her sexuality.
Johnny Santos Moreno, 23, of Costa Mesa, has been charged with one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon, one felony count of threatening a witness, and a felony hate crime enhancement. He faces a maximum sentence of eight years in state prison if convicted on all counts.
Moreno is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange on $25,000 bail.
On March 11, 2021, Moreno is accused of hurling a homophobic slur at the transgender woman and then using his skateboard to repeatedly hit the woman. A passing motorist witnessed the attack and called Costa Mesa police. Moreno is accused of using his skateboard to threaten the motorist for calling police.
“No one should have to live in the shadow of fear that they will be targeted and physically attacked because of the way they dress, speak, behave, or who they love,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Our differences – whether the color of our skin, our sexuality, or our religion – should be causes for the celebration of our diversity, not targets on our backs for haters to mock, deride, harass, and harm us. Those who engage in hate-motivated crimes will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law here in Orange County.”
Deputy District Attorney Jake Jondle of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Assault with a Deadly Weapon
Hate Crime
Johnny Santos Moreno
Transgender
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Sentenced to 27 Years to Life for Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
Press
Irvine Man Charged with Hate Crimes in Two Separate Attacks on Hispanic Men, Including Punching an Elderly Driver at a Stoplight and Throwing Hot Coffee at a Driver While Hurling Racial Slurs
Press
Self-proclaimed Skinhead with Swastika and SS Lightning Bolt Tattoos Convicted of Criminal Threats, Hate Crime for Chasing 8-Month Pregnant Black Woman from Fullerton Bus Stop while Yelling Racial Slurs, Threatening to Kill Her Unborn Baby
