San Clemente Man Sentenced to 24 years for Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old Girl While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
San Clemente Man Sentenced to 24 years for Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old Girl While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 31, 2020
Home
Press
San Clemente Man Sentenced to 24 years for Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old Girl While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
Case # 16WF1821
San Clemente Man Sentenced to 24 years for Second Degree Murder of 10-Year-Old Girl While Driving Under the Influence of Drugs
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 39-year-old man was sentenced today to 24 years to life for killing a 10-year-old girl while driving while he was under the influence of central nervous system depressants.
Adam John Kanas, of San Clemente, was found guilty in September 2019 of second-degree murder and one felony count of driving under the influence of drugs, causing injury. Kanas received two enhancements for inflicting great bodily injury.
On August 15, 2016 at approximately 9:20 a.m., Kanas was driving his 2013 Chevy Tahoe erratically at speeds of nearly 80 mph. He swerved across multiple lanes and the double yellow line into the carpool lane on northbound I-405 near the Seal Beach Boulevard Exit.
Donald Geddis was driving his Tesla with his two daughters, 10-year-old Kendra and 13-year-old Kayla, asleep in the back seat. Geddis was slowing for traffic while driving in the carpool lane when Kanas slammed into the rear of the Tesla at approximately 68 miles per hour, sending the Tesla into a Honda Civic.
Kendra died as a result of the impact. Her sister and father were seriously injured. Kanas was treated at the scene for minor injuries.
Kanas has a prior conviction for driving under the influence and a prior-strike conviction for first-degree burglary in Los Angeles County.
“Two young girls were peacefully asleep in their father’s car when a stranger who got behind the wheel while high changed this family’s life. His reckless actions killed a 10-year-old girl and seriously injured her father and sister,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The consequences of drunk and drugged driving are very real and very deadly.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Daniel Feldman of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
Tagged with:
Adam John Kanas
Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
Drugs
great bodily injury
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.4 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $3.3 Million in Grants to Combat Driving Under the Influence - Increased Office of Traffic Safety funding will allow Orange County to roll out a new multi-day impaired driving course to provide new California law enforcement Officers with cutting edge training to identify drugged and drunk drivers.
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Receives $2.8 Million in Grants to Combat Drugged and Drunk Driving
