WOMAN SENTENCED TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON FOR STABBING NEW MOTHER IN ORDER TO KIDNAP HER BABY GIRL - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
WOMAN SENTENCED TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON FOR STABBING NEW MOTHER IN ORDER TO KIDNAP HER BABY GIRL
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 17, 2013
Home
Press
WOMAN SENTENCED TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON FOR STABBING NEW MOTHER IN ORDER TO KIDNAP HER BABY GIRL
For Immediate Release
Case # 10CF1380
January 16, 2013
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
WOMAN SENTENCED TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON FOR STABBING NEW MOTHER IN ORDER TO KIDNAP HER BABY GIRL
SANTA ANA – A woman was sentenced today to 24 years in state prison for stabbing a new mother to kidnap her infant child.
Gabriela Osorio, 30, Santa Ana, pleaded guilty to one felony count each of attempted murder, kidnapping a child under 14 years of age, first degree residential burglary, criminal threats, false imprisonment by violence, and three felony counts of aggravated assault with a knife causing great bodily injury with sentencing enhancements and allegations for having a non-accomplice present during a residential burglary, causing great bodily injury, and the personal use of a deadly weapon.
Prior to April 2010, Osorio lied to her boyfriend and family by falsely claiming that she was pregnant.
When her family became suspicious, the defendant told her family that she gave birth to a baby girl in April 2010, but the baby had to remain at the hospital for medical reasons.
Osorio devised a plan to kidnap a baby and pass off the child as her own to put her family’s suspicions to rest.
In May 2010, the defendant went to a medical clinic in Santa Ana to find a pregnant woman with the intention of befriending a victim whose baby she could later kidnap. Osorio met and befriended Lucia I., who was pregnant and due to have a baby shortly, and gained her trust.
On May 26, 2010, five days after the baby girl was born, Osorio visited the victim’s home and brought her baby supplies as a gift.
On May 28, 2010, Osorio arrived at the victim’s Santa Ana home with the intention of kidnapping the 7-day-old infant.
The defendant tried to suffocate victim Lucia I. with a plastic bag and a pillow.
Lucia I. struggled to get away, biting off the defendant’s finger as she fought for her life. Osorio then attempted to murder the victim by stabbing her three times in the ribs, shoulder, and back of the neck with a kitchen knife.
The victim’s new baby and two other children, ages 3 and 4 years old, were in the room during the attack.
Lucia I. escaped and ran outside with her two older children to a neighbor’s house, where she called 911. Osorio remained in the victim’s home with the baby.
Neighbors observed the bleeding victim run from the house and went to plead with the defendant to give them the baby.
Osorio moved the new baby from one area to another inside the house and threatened to kill the baby if Lucia I. didn’t return. She then gave the child to the neighbors upon learning that police had arrived at the scene.
Paramedics transported Lucia I. to the hospital, where she was treated for her stab wounds and released.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
