OC District Attorney Launches Investigation into Placement of Unauthorized Ballot Boxes in at Least Two Orange County Cities - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
OC District Attorney Launches Investigation into Placement of Unauthorized Ballot Boxes in at Least Two Orange County Cities
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 12, 2020
Home
Press
OC District Attorney Launches Investigation into Placement of Unauthorized Ballot Boxes in at Least Two Orange County Cities
Residents are encouraged to call the OCDA Election Fraud Hotline to Report Suspected Election Irregularities
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Yesterday the Orange County District Attorney’s Office received a report that several unauthorized ballot boxes had been placed in Orange County cities. District Attorney investigators assigned to the Office’s Election Team immediately launched an investigation and that investigation is currently underway.
Once that investigation is complete, a comprehensive legal review will be done to determine whether criminal charges are warranted.
“Your vote is your voice,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The right to vote is one of our most sacred rights, and I will not tolerate anyone interfering with someone’s ability to have their voice heard in our democratic process. The residents of Orange County can rest assured that the District Attorney’s Office and the Registrar of Voters have assembled an elite team dedicated to protecting your right to vote. Anyone who chooses to violate any section of the election code in Orange County and interfere with the sanctity of the election will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has a dedicated team of prosecutors and investigators who are specifically trained in election law violations, including election fraud. That team has conducted training for the Registrar of Voters staff as well as Orange County law enforcement on how to recognize potential election fraud. OCDA prosecutors are available 24/7 to provide assistance to the Registrar of Voters and local law enforcement regarding election law violations.
The Orange County Registrar of Voters has a
list of official ballot drop boxes
. If a ballot drop box is not on the list, it is not an official government drop box.
Residents who suspect election fraud are encouraged to call the Orange County District Attorney Election Fraud Hotline at 714-501-4593. Residents can also report suspected election fraud by emailing
2020.election@da.ocgov.com
Tagged with:
Election 2020. investigation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 9 =
