MAN ARRESTED FOR 1973 NEWPORT BEACH COLD CASE MURDER - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
MAN ARRESTED FOR 1973 NEWPORT BEACH COLD CASE MURDER
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
February 20, 2019
Home
Press
MAN ARRESTED FOR 1973 NEWPORT BEACH COLD CASE MURDER
Case # 19HF0192
MAN ARRESTED FOR 1973 NEWPORT BEACH COLD CASE MURDER
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office and Newport Beach Police Department announced the arrest and filing of charges against a suspect in connection with a 1973 Newport Beach cold case murder at a joint press conference today. Newport Beach Police Chief Jon T. Lewis and Council Member Brad Avery spoke at the press conference with the OCDA Todd Spitzer.
James Alan Neal was identified as the suspect in the abduction and murder of Linda Ann O’Keefe after a tireless and exhaustive investigation by the Newport Beach Police Department that lasted for more than 45 years. Investigators broke the case through genetic genealogy techniques. The arrestee’s DNA profile was originally entered into the CODIS system in 2001, but there was no hit. Detectives from NBPD continued to investigate the case through constant innovation and crime solving techniques.
District Attorney Todd Spitzer said, “The significant arrest for the brutal sexual assault and murder of Linda O’Keefe is an affirmation to never give up on solving cold cases. The community resolve for justice, cooperation of local law enforcement, and the strategic use of investigative tools like DNA are what helped find answers for this family and community. Our office will work tirelessly to ensure justice is served in a court of law.”
Newport Beach Police Chief Jon Lewis said, “For 45 years, the Newport Beach Police Department continued to search for Linda’s Killer. Generations of investigators worked on her case. We never gave up.”
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office would like to thank our law enforcement partners, the Newport Beach Police Department, Orange County Crime Lab, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Colorado Springs Police Department, and El Paso County Sheriff’s Department for their assistance and commitment to this investigation.
Linda Ann O’Keefe was abducted while walking home from school in Newport Beach, California on July 6, 1973. Her body was discovered in the Back Bay the following morning.
Visit
https://twitter.com/i/moments/1015639333120892928
to learn more about Linda’s Story.
Prosecutor: Senior Deputy District Attorney Matt Murphy, Homicide Unit
View the Facebook live video of today’s press conference
here
.
Tagged with:
Abduction
Cold Case
James Alan Neal
James Albert Layton Jr
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Murder
Sexual Assault
Sexual Molestation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
