THREE MEN CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING 16-YEAR-OLD AND 17-YEAR-OLD GIRLS - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
11 min read
THREE MEN CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING 16-YEAR-OLD AND 17-YEAR-OLD GIRLS
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
August 10, 2018
Home
Press
THREE MEN CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING 16-YEAR-OLD AND 17-YEAR-OLD GIRLS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case # 18CF2249
DATE: August 10, 2018
THREE MEN CHARGED WITH TRAFFICKING 16-YEAR-OLD AND 17-YEAR-OLD GIRLS
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Three men were charged yesterday with trafficking 16-year-old and 17-year-old girls.
Defendant
Charges
Maximum Sentence
Court Date
Rafael Montano, 18, Pittsburg, CA
Ivan Ulises Zamora, 18, Oakland
Charged on Aug. 9, 2018 with the following felony counts:
(2) Trafficking of a minor
Pimping a minor
(2) Pandering with a minor over 16 years old by procuring
Attempted pimping of a minor
Sentencing Enhancement
Trafficking by force/fear
Life in state prison
Pre-trial hearing
Aug. 17, 2018, 8:30 a.m.
Department C-55, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana
Jonathan Deanda, 19, Pittsburg, CA
(2) Trafficking of a minor
Pimping a minor
(2) Pandering with a minor over 16 years old by procuring
Attempted pimping of a minor
14 years and eight months in state prison
Pre-trial hearing
Aug. 17, 2018, 8:30 a.m.
Department C-55, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana
Montano, Zamora, and Deanda are accused of being human traffickers/pimps who exploit women for financial gain. With the rise in popularity of social media and ease of meeting people on the Internet, many pimps and human traffickers utilize a variety of social media to locate potential victims
Circumstances of the Case
Between Aug. 2, 2018 and Aug. 6, 2018, Montano, Zamora, and Deanda are accused of trafficking, pimping, and pandering 17-year-old Jane Doe 1 and 16-year-old Jane Doe 2.
The defendants are accused of recruiting Jane Doe 1 through social media.
Montano, Zamora, and Deanda are further accused of driving both victims from Pittsburg, California to Orange County with the intent of making them engage in commercial sex for the defendant’s financial gain.
Montano is accused of grabbing Jane Doe 1 by the neck, strangling her, and forcing her to work when she attempted to go home.
Deanda is accused of driving Jane Doe 1 to an area known for prostitution and human trafficking in Orange County.
Montano and Zamora are accused of supervising the victim while she engaged in commercial sex and collecting the money she earned.
On Aug. 6, 2018, the Santa Ana Police Department (SAPD) contacted Jane Doe 1on the street in Santa Ana.
SAPD identified her as a victim of human trafficking and officers located the hotel where Montano, Zamora, and Deanda were staying. SAPD found the defendants in a hotel room with Jane Doe 2 and arrested them at the scene.
Members of the OCHTTF and the Orange County District Attorney’s (OCDA) Office work proactively to protect women and minors from falling victim to commercial sexual exploitation. This case was investigated by OCHTTF, a partnership between Anaheim Police Department, California Highway Patrol, Costa Mesa Police Department, Homeland Security Investigations, Irvine Police Department, Newport Beach Police Department, OCDA, Orange County Sheriff’s Department, SAPD, and community and non-profit partners.
Prosecutor: Senior Deputy District Attorney Bradley Schoenleben, HEAT Unit
Pimps often establish rigid rules their victims are expected to follow including requiring victims to speak only when spoken to, address the pimp as “Sir” or “Daddy,” assigning seats in the car based on “rank,” and setting daily quotas that the victims are expected to fulfill. The victims are required to turn over all payment they receive for sex acts from sex purchasers to their pimp. Failure to follow these rules can result in deprivation of food and/or physical and/or emotional abuse.
Proposition 35 and HEAT
To read more about California’s anti-human trafficking Proposition 35 (Prop 35) and the OCDA’s Human Exploitation and Trafficking (HEAT) Unit, please visit
www.orangecountyda.org
and select Human Trafficking Information from the Media Center drop down menu.
Tagged with:
Ivan Ulises Zamora
Jonathan Deanda
Rafael Montano
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 2 =
