30-year-old Trabuco Canyon Man Charged with Multiple Felonies in Connection with Raping, Attempting to Kidnap Women he Met on Dating Site Tustin police are seeking additional victims, witnesses; Defendant is facing 137 years, four months to life if convicted on all counts. - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
30-year-old Trabuco Canyon Man Charged with Multiple Felonies in Connection with Raping, Attempting to Kidnap Women he Met on Dating Site Tustin police are seeking additional victims, witnesses; Defendant is facing 137 years, four months to life if convicted on all counts.
Author
Rosanna Valdez
Published
November 8, 2022
Home
Press
30-year-old Trabuco Canyon Man Charged with Multiple Felonies in Connection with Raping, Attempting to Kidnap Women he Met on Dating Site Tustin police are seeking additional victims, witnesses; Defendant is facing 137 years, four months to life if convicted on all counts.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 8, 2022
Case #: 22CF3366
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Orange County District Attorney’s Office
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Lieutenant Ryan Coe
Tustin Police Department
Public Information Officer
Desk: 714-573-3265, Cell: 714-292-8200
rcoe@tustinca.org
30-year-old Trabuco Canyon Man Charged with Multiple Felonies in Connection with Raping, Attempting to Kidnap Women he Met on Dating Site
Tustin police are seeking additional victims, witnesses; Defendant is facing 137 years, four months to life if convicted on all counts.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 30-year-old Trabuco Canyon man has been charged with multiple felonies in connection with a series of rapes and sexual assaults on women he met on a dating site where he used the moniker of “Jay.” The Tustin Police Department is asking for anyone with additional information about other potential victims to contact them.
Deep Ketan Vora, 30, of Trabuco Canyon, has been charged with two felony counts of rape by force, one felony count of false imprisonment effected by violence, menace, fraud or deceit, one felony count of attempted kidnapping to commit rape, and three felony counts of sexual penetration by foreign object and force. He has also been charged with one felony count of forced oral copulation, one felony assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense, and one felony count of sexual battery.
Vora faces a maximum sentence of 137 years and four months to life if convicted on all counts. He was arrested on Sunday, November 6, 2022 by the Tustin Police Department at Los Angeles International Airport as he returned from India. Vora is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1,000,000 bail. Vora has pleaded not guilty and is next due in court on December 2, 2022.
Vora is accused of sexually assaulting three women he met on a dating site between September 2021 and September 2022. Many of the assaults occurred after Vora allegedly took the women to a Tustin pool and Jacuzzi in a complex where he does not live.
Vora is accused of pinning one of the women down and raping her after she tried to leave an Irvine hotel room in September 2021. The woman managed to escape from the hotel room, but Vora is accused of attempting to pull her back into the hotel room by her ankle.
In December 2021, Vora is accused of sexually assaulting another woman at two different locations and then leaving her stranded at a nearby restaurant.  In September 2022, Vora is accused of sexually assaulting a third woman at a Tustin jacuzzi after arranging to meet her on a dating site.
Anyone with additional information is asked to call Tustin Police Department Detective Charles Carter at (714) 573-3249 or ccarter@tustinca.org.
“I am proud of the tireless effort our patrol personnel and detectives put in to this case to apprehend this dangerous suspect,” said Chief Stu Greenberg of the Tustin Police Department.
“Sexual predators do not stop preying on victims until they are stopped,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Thankfully, the Tustin Police Department helped put a stop to this predator and likely prevented other women from being sexually assaulted.”
Deputy District Attorney Sean Riordan of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Dating Site
Deep Ketan Vora
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
