Man Wanted on Federal Warrant Charged with Murder, Felony Evading Causing Serious Injury and Child Endangerment for Leading Seal Beach Police on Wrong Way Pursuit, Killing 74-year-old Woman - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Man Wanted on Federal Warrant Charged with Murder, Felony Evading Causing Serious Injury and Child Endangerment for Leading Seal Beach Police on Wrong Way Pursuit, Killing 74-year-old Woman
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
March 31, 2023
Home
Press
Man Wanted on Federal Warrant Charged with Murder, Felony Evading Causing Serious Injury and Child Endangerment for Leading Seal Beach Police on Wrong Way Pursuit, Killing 74-year-old Woman
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 31, 2023
Case # 23WF1095
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Man Wanted on Federal Warrant Charged with Murder, Felony Evading Causing Serious Injury and Child Endangerment for
Leading Seal Beach Police on Wrong Way Pursuit, Killing 74-year-old Woman
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 39-year old Antioch man has been charged with murder, felony evading causing serious injury and child endangerment for hitting and killing a 74-year-old woman and seriously injuring three others while leading Seal Beach police on a wrong way pursuit with an infant in his vehicle.
Chaz Lamar Long, 39, of Antioch has been charged with one felony count of murder, three felony counts of evading a peace officer while causing serious bodily injury, and one felony count of child abuse and endangerment. He faces a maximum sentence of 26 years and eight months to life in state prison if convicted. He is scheduled to be arraigned on April 21, 2023 at the Stephen K. Tamura Justice Center in Department W12.
Long was wanted on a federal firearms warrant at the time of the pursuit.
On March 28, 2023, Long was in the passenger seat of a silver Lexus when Seal Beach pulled over the vehicle around 7:58 p.m. regarding the vehicle’s paper plates. While the officer returned to his patrol car to write a citation, the woman driving the vehicle moved to the back seat next to a one-year-old child. Long is accused of moving into the driver’s seat and driving away, despite police commands to stop the vehicle.
Long is accused of running several stop signs and red lights, driving into oncoming traffic on two separate occasions while trying to evade police. While in the city of Long Beach, Long is accused of running a red light at Pacific Coast Highway and 2
nd
Street and driving into oncoming traffic, broadsiding a Kia Forte. Seventy-four year-old Sarah Shorteno, who is a passenger in the back seat of the Kia, is killed. After the deadly collision, Long tried to run from police.
When he refused to listen to police commands to stop, he was tased by police and taken into custody.
In addition to killing Shorteno, Long is accused of injuring three other people who suffered injuries ranging from a brain bleed and collapsed lungs to broken bones. A total of nine vehicles were damaged during the pursuit. Based on the intricacies of the collision and injuries sustained the investigation is still ongoing at this point.
“A simple traffic stop set off a series of actions by a desperate individual that cost an innocent woman her life and left a trail of destruction and injury in his wake,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will ensure he will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and be held accountable for the death and misery he caused.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Chaz Lamar Long
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 2 =
