MEDIA ADVISORY - Letter to Governor Jerry Brown opposing Rogelio Solis’ Request for Commutation - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY – Letter to Governor Jerry Brown opposing Rogelio Solis’ Request for Commutation
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 20, 2018
Home
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY – Letter to Governor Jerry Brown opposing Rogelio Solis’ Request for Commutation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Case #94SF0029
Date: July 20, 2018
MEDIA ADVISORY
WHO: Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) Tony Rackauckas
WHAT: Published a letter to Governor Jerry Brown opposing defendant Rogelio Solis’ request for commutation in the case of People v. Rogelio Solis, Case No. 94SF0029.
On Oct. 15, 1993, Solis and his associate gang members brutally murdered 17-year-old Steve Woods, an unarmed high school student, by throwing several dangerous objects at the victim’s vehicle as he was leaving Calafia State Beach in San Clemente with his friends. The defendants bombarded the vehicle with sharp rocks, a metal bar, and a paint roller handle, which crashed through the victim’s window and pierced Wood’s skull and brain. The victim died 25 days later from irreparable brain swelling. The assault was coordinated as “payback” after the defendants misidentified one of the victim’s friends as a rival gang member.
On June 19, 1996, Solis was found guilty by a jury of second degree murder, conspiracy to commit a crime, and six counts of assault with a deadly weapon, with a sentencing enhancement found true that Solis committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang. At sentencing, a judge struck the gang enhancement and Solis was sentenced to 15 years to life.
The OCDA is requesting Solis’ application for Executive Clemency be denied due to the defendant’s lack of remorse and the brutal and vicious nature of his crimes, which contributed to the death of a young, innocent, and defenseless victim.
The full letter, “Letter to Governor Jerry Brown Opposing Rogelio Solis’ Application for Executive Clemency,” is available at
www.orangecountyda.org
by selecting “Letters” under the Reports pull-down menu.
WHEN: Today, July 20, 2018
Tagged with:
Media Advisory
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
