Nevada Man Convicted of First Degree Murder for Strangling 81-year-old Man to Death in his Newport Beach Bedroom - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Nevada Man Convicted of First Degree Murder for Strangling 81-year-old Man to Death in his Newport Beach Bedroom
Author
websupportkcomm
Published
March 31, 2021
Home
Press
Nevada Man Convicted of First Degree Murder for Strangling 81-year-old Man to Death in his Newport Beach Bedroom
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 31, 2021
Case # 20CF2621
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Nevada Man Convicted of First Degree Murder for Strangling 81-year-old Man to Death in his Newport Beach Bedroom
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A Nevada man was convicted Tuesday by a jury of first degree murder for strangling an 81-year-old man to death in his sleep in 2015. Prosecutors argued the murder was an attempt to gain control over the estate of the victim’s dying wife, but the jury did not find the special circumstance of murder for financial gain to be true.
Anthony Thomas Garcia, of Carson City, Nev., was convicted of one felony count of first degree murder. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life. He is scheduled to be sentenced on April 28, 2021 at the Central Justice Center in Department C35.
A previous jury was unable to reach a verdict and charges were refiled against Garcia last year.
Abelardo “Abby” Lopez Estacion was found dead in his Newport Beach bedroom by his live-in caretaker on April 11, 2015. He had been strangled.
At the time of his death, Estacion had been arguing with members of his wife’s family over her assets, which included valuable real estate in several Orange County cities along with bank accounts. Estacion and Dortha Lamb had dated for more than 20 years, but had only recently been married. Garcia is the former boyfriend of Lamb’s granddaughter and he is the father of two of Lamb’s great-granddaughters.
Lamb was dying from terminal cancer and suffered from dementia at the time of her husband’s murder.
Lamb’s family members accused Estacion of capitalizing on his wife’s health issues in order to take control of her assets.
The day of Estacion’s murder Lamb’s family had asked a judge to grant a temporary restraining order against Estacion and force him to move out of the Newport Beach home. The judge denied the request.
Hours later, Estacion was strangled to death in his bedroom.
“The entire prosecution team worked tirelessly to ensure the family of Abby Lopez received justice and I could not be prouder of the work they did,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is a tragic case of how a family squabble over money and property crossed the line into murder. I want to thank the jurors for their careful consideration of the evidence and returning a guilty verdict that will keep a coldblooded killer behind bars for a very long time.”
Senior Deputy District Attorney Seton Hunt of the Homicide Unit prosecuted this case.
###
Tagged with:
Anthony Thomas Garcia
Murder
Strangling
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
