OCSD JAIL COOK CHARGED WITH SEXUALLY ASSAULTING TWO FEMALE INMATES WHO WORKED FOR HIM - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
OCSD JAIL COOK CHARGED WITH SEXUALLY ASSAULTING TWO FEMALE INMATES WHO WORKED FOR HIM
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
March 3, 2011
Home
Press
OCSD JAIL COOK CHARGED WITH SEXUALLY ASSAULTING TWO FEMALE INMATES WHO WORKED FOR HIM
For Immediate Release
Case # TBA
March 3, 2011
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
OCSD JAIL COOK CHARGED WITH
SEXUALLY ASSAULTING TWO FEMALE INMATES
WHO WORKED FOR HIM
SANTA ANA – An Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) jail cook has been charged with sexually assaulting two female inmates who worked under his supervision in the kitchen of the Orange County Jail. James Arroyo, 54, Fullerton, is charged with one misdemeanor count each of sexual battery and being a detention facility employee engaging in sexual activity with a confined consenting adult for Jane Doe #1.  For Jane Doe #2 he is charged with two misdemeanor counts each of assault and battery, one misdemeanor count of being a detention facility employee engaging in sexual activity with a confined consenting adult, and one misdemeanor count of being a detention facility employee attempting sexual activity with a confined consenting adult. If convicted on all counts, Arroyo faces a maximum sentence of three years and six months in jail and sex offender registration. The defendant is currently out of custody on $25,000 bail. The People will be requesting Arroyo is scheduled to be arraigned March 14, 2011, at the Central Justice Center in Santa Ana. The time and Department are to be determined.
At the time of the crime, Arroyo was a non-sworn employee of the Orange County Sheriff’s Department (OCSD) and worked as a cook in the Orange County Jail. Several female inmates worked under his supervision.
Jane Doe #1
For several months prior to February 2011, Arroyo is accused of violating his position of power and authority by frequently harassing 47-year-old inmate Jane Doe #1 while she was working in the jail kitchen. This is a sought-after position for inmates and a privilege.  He is accused of pestering her multiple times every day by asking to touch and see her breasts. The victim said “No,” every time but did not report the harassment for fear that she would lose her job in the kitchen.
On Feb. 12, 2011, Arroyo is accused of following Jane Doe #1 into a storage closet and blocking the doorway. He is accused of continuing to harass the victim by asking her again to touch her breasts. The trapped, intimidated victim replied, “Just do it.” Arroyo is accused of squeezing Jane Doe #1’s breasts twice before she rushed out of the closet. Following the sexual assault, Arroyo is accused of continuing to repeatedly asking the victim to show him her breasts and allow him to touch them.
Over the next two days, Jane Doe #1 was shaking, appeared distraught and ill, and was afraid to go to work or the restroom alone. On Feb. 14, 2011, Jane Doe #1 disclosed the assault to OCSD, who immediately began investigating the case.
Jane Doe #2
For several weeks prior to February 2011, Arroyo is accused of violating his position of power and authority and constantly harassing 23-year-old inmate Jane Doe #2 while she was working in the jail kitchen. He is accused of repeatedly pestering her by complimenting her lips and asking to kiss her. The victim said “No,” every time but did not report the harassment for fear that no one would believe her. On multiple occasions, Arroyo is accused of intentionally brushing his arms and hands against her breasts while pretending it was unintentional in the course of kitchen work.
In early February 2011, Arroyo is accused of cornering the victim in a storage room and blocking her ability to exit by standing in the doorway. He is accused of continuing to harass the victim by asking her again to kiss her. The trapped, intimidated victim complied with a quick kiss on the lips before pushing her way past him and rushing out of the room.
Over the next several days, Arroyo is accused of repeatedly asking the victim for a longer kiss and escalating his harassment by requesting that she pull down her pants to show her vagina. The victim reported the sexual assault to OCSD on Feb. 14, 2011.
Request for Public Information
The defendant is accused of having inappropriate relationship with other female inmates and providing them with favors including snacks and jail account funds. He is accused of maintaining contact with multiple female inmates and possessing nude photographs of them sent to him on his cell phone after their release from jail.
The investigation is ongoing. Anyone with additional information or who believes they have been a victim is encouraged to contact Supervising District Attorney Investigator Anthony Sosnowski at (714) 347-8814.
Senior Deputy District Attorney Aleta Bryant of the Special Prosecutions Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
