MAN CHARGED WITH ATTACKING FIVE WOMEN IN VIOLENT 5-HOUR CRIME SPREE - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
MAN CHARGED WITH ATTACKING FIVE WOMEN IN VIOLENT 5-HOUR CRIME SPREE
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 26, 2017
Home
Press
MAN CHARGED WITH ATTACKING FIVE WOMEN IN VIOLENT 5-HOUR CRIME SPREE
For Immediate Release
Case # TBA
January 21, 2014
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
MAN CHARGED WITH ATTACKING FIVE WOMEN IN VIOLENT 5-HOUR CRIME SPREE
WESTMINSTER – A man has been charged with attacking five women, including stabbing three in the head, face, or back, in a 5-hour crime spree. Ulises Omar De La Torre, 32, Buena Park, is charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit rape, two felony counts of assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense, and three felony counts of assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense in the commission of first degree burglary. He faces sentencing enhancements for causing great bodily injury, great bodily injury to a sexual assault victim, the use of a deadly weapon during a sexual offense, and two prior strike convictions from 2004 for attempted murder and street terrorism. If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of 244 years to life in state prison. The People will be requesting De La Torre be held without bail. He is expected to be arraigned today, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2014, at 1:30 p.m., in Department W-2, West Justice Center, Westminster.
Between approximately 5:15 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. on Jan. 16, 2014, De La Torre is accused of attacking five women in the Cities of Anaheim and Garden Grove. The victims were all attacked within a short distance of one another.
De La Torre is accused of passing Jane Doe #1 as she was walking home from work and attempting to engage her in conversation. After she passed, De La Torre is accused of hitting her in the back of the head with his fist, repeatedly beating her, and at some point attempting to pull down the victim’s pants. He is accused of fleeing the scene.
De La Torreis accused of entering the home of Jane Doe #2 and grabbing the victim as she arrived and entered her house. He is accused of stabbing the victim in the arm and back as she struggled. Jane Doe #2’s boyfriend walked inside the home, and De La Torre is accused of fleeing the scene.
Jane Doe #3 and Jane Doe #4 were in the hallway of their hotel attempting to enter their room. De La Torreis accused of being in the hallway and attempting to force his way into the room when the victims opened the door. He is accused of stabbing the victims as they screamed and struggled to get away, including in the head, face, and arms. The defendant is accused of fleeing the scene.
De La Torreis accused of passing Jane Doe #5 while she was jogging in Garden Grove. The victim observed the shadow of a person following her and turned around. When she turned, De La Torre is accused of punching her in the face and knocking her down. He is accused of punching her repeatedly and pulling at her clothes. De La Torre is accused of fleeing the scene as Jane Doe #5 was screaming.
The Anaheim Police Department and Garden Grove Police Department investigated this case and identified the defendant, and De La Torre was arrested Jan. 18, 2014.
Deputy District Attorney Bobby Taghavi of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Assault
Sexual Offence
Stabbing
Ulises Omar De La Torre
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 2 =
Recent Posts
Press
Self-Proclaimed “Incel” Wanted on Warrant for Multiple Felonies, Hate Crimes in Series of Violent Attacks Targeting Unsuspecting Women has been Captured, Transported Back to Orange County - Defendant Posted Videos of the Attacks on His YouTube Channel
Press
Felon Charged with Seven Counts Premediated Attempted Murder, Assault with a Deadly Weapon Using a Car for Driving onto Santa Ana Sidewalk, Hitting Elementary School Children Walking to School with their Grandparents
Press
26-year-old Man Charged with Special Circumstances Murders for Stabbing Co-worker, Co-worker’s Roommate to Death in their Anaheim Apartment
