Man Charged With Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Three Women, Attacking a Fourth - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Man Charged With Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Three Women, Attacking a Fourth
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
February 2, 2024
Home
Press
Man Charged With Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Three Women, Attacking a Fourth
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: Feb. 2, 2024
Case #: 24WF0044
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Sione Mounga Vea
Man Charged With Kidnapping, Sexually Assaulting Three Women,
Attacking a Fourth
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Anaheim man has pleaded not guilty to kidnapping four women he picked up seeking sex, holding them against their will at gunpoint and sexually assaulting three of them on separate occasions in Orange and Los Angeles counties, dating back to 2018.
Sione Vea, 46, was charged with four felony counts of kidnapping to commit a sexual offense, six felony counts of forcible oral copulation, three felony counts of sexual penetration by force, two felony counts of second-degree robbery and one felony count each of forcible rape, sodomy by force, assault with a firearm, assault with intent to commit a sexual offense and attempted second-degree robbery. He also faces special allegations that he personally used a firearm during the crimes.
Vea pleaded not guilty to all counts on February 1 and a preliminary hearing is scheduled for February 14 in Department W11 of the West Justice Center.
He faces a maximum sentence of 272 years and eight months to life in state prison if convicted of all counts.
The case was filed for warrant on January 3. Vea was arrested on January 9 by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.
On November 26, 2023, Vea drove up to a woman in Stanton asking for sex. She got into the vehicle and he is accused of pulling out a firearm, robbing her and driving her to another location. He then is accused of sexually assaulting her.
On October 23, 2022, Vea pulled his vehicle up to a woman in Stanton seeking sex. She got into his SUV and Vea is again accused of displaying a gun, robbing the woman and sodomizing her.
On August 18, 2021, Vea approached a woman in Los Angeles who got into his vehicle and saw that he had a gun. He drove away and is accused of strangling the woman with the intent to sexually assault her and trying to rob her. She managed to break free and get out of his vehicle.
On October 28, 2018, Vea approached a woman in Compton wanting sex. They drove a short distance away and Vea allegedly pulled out a gun and sexually assaulted her. He later drove to Long Beach, pulled her out of his car and is accused of raping her.
“Over and over again, women were targeted and attacked by this sexual predator who waited for an opportune time to assault them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Sexual violence of any kind will never be tolerated in Orange County, and predators who prey on unsuspecting women for their own sexual gratification will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
Anyone with additional information about Vea’s activities or any other potential victims is asked to contact Orange County Sheriff’s Department Investigator Austin Jones at (714) 647-7106 or
ajones@ocsheriff.gov
.
Deputy District Attorney Sean Riordan of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Sione Mounga Vea
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 6 + 4 =
