GANG MEMBER GETS DEATH PENALTY FOR EXECUTION STYLE MURDER AND ATTEMPED MURDER - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
GANG MEMBER GETS DEATH PENALTY FOR EXECUTION STYLE MURDER AND ATTEMPED MURDER
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 14, 2005
Home
Press
GANG MEMBER GETS DEATH PENALTY FOR EXECUTION STYLE MURDER AND ATTEMPED MURDER
For Immediate Release
September 13th, 2005
Contact:
Mark Macaulay
Media Relations Spokesperson
(714) 347-8405
GANG MEMBER GETS DEATH PENALTY FOR EXECUTION STYLE MURDER AND ATTEMPED MURDER
Santa Ana
– An
Orange County jury imposed the death penalty on Los Angeles gang member Tupoutoe Mataele, 32, for the 1997 execution style murder of Danell Johnson and the attempted murder of John Masubayashi.
On August 3, 2005, Co-defendant Minh Nghia Lee and Mataele, also known as “T-Strong,” were convicted of first-degree murder, attempted murder, and the special circumstance of “lying in wait.”
The victims were friends with the defendants and were trying to end their criminal relationship with the defendants when the murder was committed.
WHAT HAPPENED
Victims Johnson and Masubayashi were involved in a criminal enterprise involving bank fraud and methamphetamine sales in Los Angeles with James Chung, Ryan Carillo, Lee and Mataele.
Chung became upset with the victims because he felt that they were not doing their part in the crimes.
Mataele was not personally upset at the victims.
The victims then moved to Anaheim to get away from the group.
While high on drugs in Los Angeles, the group talked about killing the two.
Defendant Mataele volunteered to use his .357 magnum to kill the victims.
On November 12, 1997, the defendants left downtown Los Angeles to murder the victims.
On their way to Anaheim, the defendants met with another gang member in Norwalk who tried to talk the group out of killing the victims.
On the freeway to Anaheim, the group was stopped and issued a ticket by a California Highway Patrol officer.
The law enforcement contact did not deter the group.
When the group arrived in Anaheim, Mataele and Carillo lured the victims by inviting them to a strip club.
As they were leaving, Masubayashi and Johnson were contacted by Anaheim Police officers.
This second law enforcement contact did not deter the group.
Mataele, while sitting in the backseat of the victims’ car, told the victims to pull the car over to a dark parking lot where Chung and Lee were hiding.
After Mataele got out of his car, he shook Johnson’s hand.
While he felt the warmth of Johnson’s right hand, Mataele shot Johnson in the head with his other hand.
Mataele then shot Masubayashi on the chest and shot at him three more times until the victim was able get help from a security guard.
They left Masubayashi to die who survived only through heroic medical efforts.
Masubayashi lives today with a bullet lodged in his back.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 9 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
