Residential Burglary Ring Responsible for Stealing $1.9 Million in Cash, Jewelry, and Guns Arrested in Multi-County Takedown - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Residential Burglary Ring Responsible for Stealing $1.9 Million in Cash, Jewelry, and Guns Arrested in Multi-County Takedown
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
May 18, 2020
Home
Press
Residential Burglary Ring Responsible for Stealing $1.9 Million in Cash, Jewelry, and Guns Arrested in Multi-County Takedown
Residential Burglary Ring Responsible for Stealing $1.9 Million in Cash, Jewelry, and Guns Arrested in Multi-County Takedown
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Five men accused of running a multi-county burglary ring responsible for stealing $1.9 million in designer watches and purses, jewelry, guns, purses, and cash in 44 residential burglaries in Orange and San Bernardino counties were arrested by SWAT teams on Friday.
The District Attorney’s AB109 Task Force, along with the Fullerton, Anaheim, and Buena Park Police Departments, the Orange Sheriff’s Department, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, executed simultaneous search warrants on Friday, May 15, 2020 in Los Angeles County.
Jurandir Endnilson Penate, 24, Erick Daniel Soria, 27, Alvaro Ramos, 37, Eugene Yi, 35, and Sergio Soto, 33, all of Los Angeles, were arrested in the multi-agency operation.
Felony criminal charges were filed against the five defendants Monday, May 18, 2020 in connection with the rash of burglaries that began in Chino Hills in August 2019 and continued in Fullerton, Anaheim Hills, Villa Park, Lake Forest, Yorba Linda, Buena Park, and Irvine through February. Four of the burglaries occurred when residents were home.
“This case underscores law enforcement’s resolve to effectively collaborate, across jurisdictions, to bring criminals to justice,” said Fullerton Police Chief Bob Dunn, who spoke at a Monday morning press conference at the District Attorney’s Office to announce the arrests.
Orange County Assistant Sheriff Jeff Hallock, Buena Park Police Chief Corey Sianez, Anaheim Police Chief Jorge Cisneros, Orange County District Attorney Bureau of Investigation Chief Paul Walters, and Assistant Special Agent in Charge Stephen Galloway of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives were also in attendance at Monday’s announcement.
Soria, who is currently on parole for residential burglary, is facing 83 years and 8 months in state prison if convicted on all charges. Soto, is a third striker with prior convictions for residential burglaries and assault with a deadly weapon, is facing 35 years to life in state prison if convicted on all charges. Ramos, who is currently on parole for residential burglary and evading police, is facing 125 years in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Yi, who has one prior strike for a 2005 great bodily injury conviction, is facing 19 years and 8 months in state prison if convicted on all charges. Penate is facing 55 years and 4 months in state prison if convicted on all charges.
“Ongoing efforts to decriminalize felonies and release state prisoners and jail inmates back into our communities has resulted in an increase in property crime. These are the people who are sneaking into our backyards to steal designer purses, shoes, cash, and guns,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This case exemplifies why I started the AB109 Crime Impact Task Force last year to identify parolees who commit new crimes and assist police agencies in their investigations to get these criminals off the streets and back in prison where they belong.”
In order to support the efforts of probation which is now responsible for supervising AB 109ers and to further protect the residents of Orange County, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office created a dedicated task force to identify and arrest AB 109ers who commit new crimes.
The AB 109 Crime Impact Task Force, which is housed at the Santa Ana Police Department, is made up of five District Attorney Investigators, one Santa Ana Police Officer, one Orange County Probation Officer, and an Investigative Assistant and a Research Analyst from the District Attorney’s Office.
Since July 2019, the AB 109 Task Force has arrested 128 AB 109ers on new crimes, including five attempted murder suspects, four stolen car suspects, and 73 suspects arrested on felonies.
The task force has done 5,840 compliance and reporting checks on AB 109ers and revoked Post Release Community Supervision on 71 convicted felons since July 2019.
The AB 109 Task Force has located wanted subjects in other states, and coordinated their arrests and extradition back to Orange County to face charges.
Penate, Soto, Soria, Yi and Ramos are all being held on no bail at the Orange County Jail. This is an ongoing investigation.
Tagged with:
Alvaro Ramos
Erick Daniel Soria
Eugene Yi
Jurandir Endnilson Penate
Residential Burglary
Sergio Soto
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Fourth Defendant in $1.9 Million Multi-County Residential Burglary Ring Sentenced to 61 Years to Life; Ordered to Pay $1.2 Million in Restitution Third-striker recaptured in Mexico after he skipped out on a combined  $1.2 million bond while awaiting trial in connection with  44 residential burglaries in Orange County and San Bernardino counties  that targeted designer watches and purses, jewelry, guns, and cash.
Media Advisory
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: Press Conference To Announce Take Down of Burglary Ring Netting $2 Million
Press
Four People Charged With Kidnapping Irvine Woman for Ransom
