SERIAL RAPIST FACES TRIAL FOR FORCIBLY RAPING FIVE WOMEN AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A SIXTH - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
9 min read
SERIAL RAPIST FACES TRIAL FOR FORCIBLY RAPING FIVE WOMEN AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A SIXTH
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
January 14, 2011
Home
Press
SERIAL RAPIST FACES TRIAL FOR FORCIBLY RAPING FIVE WOMEN AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A SIXTH
For Immediate Release
Case # 06HF2048
January 14, 2011
Susan Kang Schroeder
Chief of Staff
Office: 714-347-8408
Cell: 714-292-2718
Farrah Emami
Spokesperson
Office: 714-347-8405
Cell: 714-323-4486
SERIAL RAPIST FACES TRIAL FOR FORCIBLY RAPING FIVE WOMEN AND SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A SIXTH
SANTA ANA – A man faces trial Tuesday for raping five women and sexually assaulting a sixth. Sekayi Rudo White, 33, Lake Forest, is charged with 14 felony counts including attempted rape and forcible rape for Jane Doe #1, assault with the intent to commit rape, sexual battery by restraint, and criminal threats for Jane Doe #2, forcible rape and dissuading a witness by force for Jane Doe #3, first degree residential burglary of an inhabited dwelling and two counts of forcible rape for Jane Doe #4, forcible rape, criminal threats, and first degree residential burglary of an inhabited dwelling for Jane Doe #5, and forcible rape for Jane Doe #6. He faces sentencing enhancements and allegations for sexual crimes against multiple victims, rape with the use of a deadly weapon, rape in the commission of a burglary, non-accomplice present during a residential burglary, personal use of a deadly weapon, use of a deadly weapon during a sexual offense, being armed with a deadly weapon during a sexual offense, and crime-bail-crime. The term crime-bail-crime indicates that he defendant committed a crime while out of custody on bail for another criminal case.
If convicted on all counts, White faces a maximum sentence of 119 years to life in state prison. Opening statements are expected to begin Tuesday, Jan. 18, 2011, at 9:00 a.m. in Department C-45, Central Justice Center, Santa Ana.
Jane Doe #1
On Aug. 13, 2006, White is accused of meeting 22-year-old Jane Doe #1 at a bar in Huntington Beach. He is accused of driving Jane Doe #1 to his home in Lake Forest and taking her inside. The victim passed out and later woke up in the defendant’s bed with the defendant on top of her. He is accused of removing the victim’s pants and panties and unsuccessfully attempting to rape her. Sometime later, White is accused of forcibly raping Jane Doe #1. He is accused of then dropping her off at a convenience store, where her friend picked her up.
Jane Doe #2
On Dec. 23, 2005, White is accused of meeting 44-year-old Jane Doe #2 at a bar at the Irvine Spectrum. The defendant is accused of offering the victim a ride home. He is accused of driving Jane Doe #2 to her Newport Beach apartment and asking to go inside to use the restroom. White is accused of going into the restroom and then coming out naked with his penis erect. He is accused of pinning the victim down and fondling her breasts as he attempted to remove her pants. White is accused of threatening to kill her if she told anyone about the attack. Jane Doe #2 screamed and the defendant is accused of grabbing his clothes and fleeing the scene.
White was arrested and charged in October 2006 for the crimes against Jane Doe #1 and Jane Doe #2. He is accused of posting $250,000 bail and raping Jane Doe #3 while out of custody.
Jane Doe #3
On March 31, 2007, White is accused of going to a bar in Lake Forest, where 28-year-old Jane Doe #3 was celebrating her birthday. The victim had met the defendant a few months prior. At approximately 2:30 a.m. on April 1, 2007, Jane Doe #3 was dropped off at home by a friend. White is accused of showing up at the victim’s home and knocking on her door. The victim, who was intoxicated due to alcohol consumption, opened the door and White is accused of entering. Jane Doe #3 passed out in her bed. When the victim woke up, White is accused of forcibly raping her as she struggled and told him to stop. The victim punched White in the face and was able to get up and attempt to call 911. White is accused of following Jane Doe #3 and stopping her from calling the police. The victim ran outside and called 911 from a neighbor’s home.
The defendant was re-arrested and charged April 4, 2007, with the rape of Jane Doe #3. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office issued a press release about White that day and several media publicized the case. As a result of the media coverage, three additional victims who had previously been frightened to report the crimes against them came forward to police.
Jane Doe #4
Jane Doe #4 met and began dating White in 2006 when she was 22 years old. In February 2007, White is accused of beginning to send threatening messages to the victim and spying on her by peering through the blinds into her home. On Feb. 21, 2007, White is accused of breaking into Jane Doe #4’s home when she was alone, pushing the victim to the ground, and stepping on her chest as he removed her pants and panties. He is accused of forcibly raping the victim as he held a large hunting knife to her neck.
Jane Doe #5
Jane Doe #5 was renting a room from Jane Doe #4. The victim frequently locked her bedroom door using an eye-hook because she had seen White in the apartment before and was alarmed by his aggressive behavior toward her roommate. On night in January 2007, Jane Doe #5 locked her bedroom door and went to sleep. White is accused of breaking the lock off the door, entering the bedroom, and forcibly raping Jane Doe #5. He is accused of threatening to kill her if she reported the rape.
Jane Doe #6
White is accused of meeting 22-year-old Jane Doe #6 in driving school in 2002. Sometime between August and September 2002, White is accused of picking the victim up for a date. White is accused of taking Jane Doe #6 to a hotel in Santa Ana and forcibly raping her. The victim does not recall drinking alcohol or entering the hotel, and was temporarily unconscious when she awoke to being raped.
Share
Latest Posts
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
June 9, 2026
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 5 + 1 =
Recent Posts
Press
Placentia Mother Found in Running Shower with Body of Her Dead Two-Year-old Charged with Murder
Press
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
