Brea Plastic Surgeon Charged with Sexually Assaulting Patients - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Brea Plastic Surgeon Charged with Sexually Assaulting Patients
Author
Web Support KCOMM
Published
August 31, 2021
Home
Press
Brea Plastic Surgeon Charged with Sexually Assaulting Patients
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: August 31, 2021
Case # 21NF2698
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Brea Plastic Surgeon Charged with Sexually Assaulting Patients
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A 77-year-old plastic surgeon has been charged with sexually assaulting two of his female patients while he was treating the women at his Brea medical office. The doctor also has an office in Beverly Hills.
Frederic Corbin, 77, of Villa Park, has been charged with one felony count of sexual battery by fraud, one felony count of sexual exploitation by a physician, two misdemeanor counts of sexual battery, and two misdemeanor counts of battery. He faces a maximum sentence of five years in state prison.
Corbin turned himself into authorities today.
On September 17, 2020, Corbin is accused of sexually assaulting one of his female patients while he prepped her for a surgical procedure. On May 14, 2021, another female patient went to Corbin’s Brea office for post-surgery treatment. Corbin is accused of sexually assaulting the patient during the examination.
The women reported the incident to the Brea Police Department.
“Patients entrust their very lives to the doctors who treat them,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “No one seeking medical treatment should have to worry about being sexually assaulted while under a doctor’s care. These women were in very vulnerable situations and their doctor capitalized on those vulnerabilities for his own sexual gratification.”
Anyone with additional information is asked to call Detective Ryan Trent at the Brea Police Department at
714-990-7618
.
Deputy District Attorney Tara Meath of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
###
Tagged with:
Frederic Corbin
Sexual Assault. Sexual Battery By Fraud
Sexual Exploitation
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 4 =
