Repeat Drunk Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Street Racing Murder that Killed Innocent Driver - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
Repeat Drunk Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Street Racing Murder that Killed Innocent Driver
Author
Natalie Mumm
Published
October 7, 2022
Home
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Street Racing Murder that Killed Innocent Driver
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: October 7, 2022
Case #: 20CF2106
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Repeat Drunk Driver Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Street Racing Murder that Killed Innocent Driver
Good Samaritans pulled victim out of ca
r as it burst into flames; second driver charged with vehicular manslaughter, hit-and-run for fleeing scene of deadly crash
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A repeat drunk driver was sentenced today to the maximum sentence of 15 years to life for the murder of a longtime Orange County Register editor who he crashed into and killed while street racing in Santa Ana in 2020. The driver he is accused of racing has been charged with vehicular manslaughter and hit and run causing permanent injury or death.
Louie Robert Villa, 31, of Santa Ana, was convicted in August by a jury of one felony count of murder, one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol causing great bodily injury with a prior DUI conviction, one felony count of driving under the influence of alcohol with a blood alcohol level of greater than .08 with a prior DUI conviction, and one misdemeanor count of driving on a suspended or revoked license with a prior conviction. The jury also found true one enhancement of great bodily injury. Jurors deadlocked 10-2 in favor of guilt on one misdemeanor count of street racing; however Villa pled guilty today to engaging in a street race.
Villa was driving a BMW on Thursday, July 30, 2020 when he and Tolento began racing next to each other at the intersection of 17
th
Street and Bristol Street in Santa Ana around 11:40 a.m. Villa was seen pulling ahead of Tolento’s Infiniti shortly before crashing into a pickup truck making a left turn onto Santa Clara Avenue at Bristol Street.
The crash caused the truck to roll over and burst into flames. Good Samaritans rushed to the victim’s aid and pulled him out of the vehicle. The driver, 67-year-old Gene Harbrecht, of Santa Ana, died at the hospital. Harbrecht was on his way back from lunch when he was killed.
Tolento drove away from the scene of the crash without rendering aid to the victim. He was arrested a short time later by the Santa Ana Police Department. Villa’s car was disabled in the crash and he was arrested at the scene.
Drivers convicted of driving under the influence in California are required to be given what is known as a Watson advisement that informs them that if they kill someone while driving under the influence they can be charged with murder. Villa acknowledged that he received that advisement after pleading guilty to driving under the influence in 2012.
Prior to sentenced Villa apologized to Harbrecht’s widow, Patricia, in open court, expressing remorse for his actions and promising to change his ways. Following the court hearing, Patricia Harbrecht hugged a handcuffed Villa and kissed him on the cheek.
“The death of an innocent man was a result of years of poor choices by the defendant to drink and drive even after he had been warned of the deadly consequences,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Watson murders are some of the most tragic cases we prosecute because all too often the victims are completely innocent people and the defendants didn’t wake up that day intending to commit a murder, but regardless of what they intended an innocent person was left dead as a result of their choices. Nothing will bring Gene Harbrecht back to his wife and loved ones; but hopefully his death will be enough to redirect the trajectory of his murderer’s life after he completes his prison sentence – and it will serve as a warning to anyone else who wants to get behind the wheel drunk or high and race on Orange County’s streets. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office will vigorously prosecute illegal street racing and driving under the influence cases to the fullest extent of the law.”
The other driver, Ricardo Tolento, 26, of Santa Ana, has been charged with one felony count of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence while engaging in a street race, one felony hit and run causing permanent injury or death and one misdemeanor count of street racing. He has also been charged with an enhancement of hit and run. Tolento faces a maximum of 11 years in state prison if convicted of all charges. Tolento is scheduled to go to trial later this year.
In response to a dramatic increase in illegal street racing and street takeovers during the pandemic, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer partnered with members of the Fast & Furious movie franchise to produce an anti-street racing public service announcement to encourage street racers to keep it on the track and off our streets.
Download the Orange County District Attorney’s Office Anti-street Racing PSA here
.
Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
DUI
Gene Harbrecht
Louie Robert Villa
Ricardo Tolento
Street Racing
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Convicted of Murder in Street Racing Crash that Killed Innocent Driver
Media Advisory
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer to Announce National Public Service Announcement Campaign to Combat Illegal Street Racing
Press
Former Fullerton Police Sergeant Sentenced to Pre-trial Diversion for Lying in Police Report Regarding DUI Investigation
