Orange County District Attorney’s Office Launches Multi-County Public Safety Advertising Campaign to Make it Clear Crime Doesn’t Pay in Orange County, Thieves will be Prosecuted to the Fullest Extent of the Law - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
6 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Launches Multi-County Public Safety Advertising Campaign to Make it Clear Crime Doesn’t Pay in Orange County, Thieves will be Prosecuted to the Fullest Extent of the Law
Author
Aaron Garcia
Published
March 11, 2024
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Launches Multi-County Public Safety Advertising Campaign to Make it Clear Crime Doesn’t Pay in Orange County, Thieves will be Prosecuted to the Fullest Extent of the Law
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 12, 2024
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Launches Multi-County Public
Safety Advertising Campaign to Make it Clear Crime Doesn’t Pay in Orange County,
Thieves will be Prosecuted to the Fullest Extent of the Law
SANTA ANA
– The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has launched a
multi-county public safety advertising campaign to make it clear that crime doesn’t pay in Orange County
and that thieves will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
Over the last several years, Orange County has experienced a significant number of defendants coming from Los Angeles, Riverside, and other surrounding counties with the sole purpose of committing residential burglaries and robberies, smash and grabs, and commercial burglaries.
Using federal asset forfeiture money, the District Attorney’s Office has
taken advertising space out on static and electronic billboards
on major freeways coming into Orange County from Los Angeles and Riverside counties as well as on billboards throughout Orange County, including a billboard at the Outlets at Orange with the simple message:
CRIME DOESN’T PAY IN ORANGE COUNTY
IF YOU STEAL, WE PROSECUTE
THE ORANGE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S OFFICE
The
public safety advertising campaign
also includes ads on public transit buses in Los Angeles, Long Beach, Norwalk, and Glendale, bumper stickers, and digital marketing advertising targeting active cell phone users in the counties of Orange, Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego and Imperial counties.
The billboard and bus ads alone are estimated to reach more than 38 million people over a four-week period. The Department of Justice and the Department of the Treasury Asset Forfeiture allows monies seized from criminal operations to be used by law enforcement to pay for advertising to deter crime.
“There is nothing more important than public safety,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “My job – and the job of my prosecutors, investigators, and staff – is to keep you – and your loved ones safe. Sacramento hasn’t made our jobs easy. When the risk is far less than the reward, it’s no surprise that criminals are committing smash and grabs, residential burglaries, and simply walking out the front door of stores with arms full of stolen merchandise. While you’re standing in line waiting to pay for your items. Crime doesn’t pay in Orange County. Sacramento may be rolling out the red carpet for thieves – but here in Orange County we’re throwing the book at criminals who come here to steal. If you steal, we will prosecute. It’s that simple.”
Recognizing the onslaught of home invasion burglaries and robberies, commercial burglaries, and smash and grab robberies, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer created a vertical prosecution unit in June 2022 to prosecute these cases from filing to conviction. H.E.I.S.T. (Home Invasion. Eradication. Interdiction. Strike. Team.) consists of six veterans prosecutors and four district attorney investigators dedicated to prosecuting these cases while working with our law enforcement partners across Southern California to identify, arrest, and successfully prosecute these burglary crews.
If you are retailer interested in displaying
this advertising
on your electronic billboard, please contact Orange County District Attorney’s Office Director of Public Affairs Kimberly Edds at 714-504-1917 or at
Kimberly.edds@ocdapa.org
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
crime doesn't pay in orange county
Public safety announcement
retail theft
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 4 + 8 =
