Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assists in Capture of Chilean National who Escaped from California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Fire Camp While Serving Four Years, Eight Months Prison Sentence for Orange County Residential Burglary Targeting Safe, Jewelry and Designer Items - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assists in Capture of Chilean National who Escaped from California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Fire Camp While Serving Four Years, Eight Months Prison Sentence for Orange County Residential Burglary Targeting Safe, Jewelry and Designer Items
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
November 14, 2025
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assists in Capture of Chilean National who Escaped from California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Fire Camp While Serving Four Years, Eight Months Prison Sentence for Orange County Residential Burglary Targeting Safe, Jewelry and Designer Items
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: November 14, 2025
Case #: 24HF1156
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Alejandro Tobarfuentes
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Assists in Capture of Chilean National
who Escaped from California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Fire
Camp
While Serving Four Years, Eight Months Prison Sentence for Orange County
Residential Burglary Targeting Safe, Jewelry and Designer Items
Alejandro Tobarfuentes was in the United States on an Chilean ESTA Visa Waiver
from the United States Department of Homeland Security when he committed his crimes;
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer has been calling for Chile to be suspended
from visa waiver program for years to no avail from Trump administration
SANTA ANA – A Chilean national who escaped from a state prison fire camp in Los Angeles County on Sunday while serving time for his role in an Orange County burglary and police pursuit that left an innocent driver seriously injured was recaptured Thursday evening with the assistance of investigators from the Orange County District Attorney’s Office. Alejandro Tobarfuentes, 33, was arrested Thursday evening in the city of Mecca, California in Riverside County by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Office of Correctional Safety, Special Agents acting on information from the Orange County District Attorney’s Office. He has been transferred to the California Institution for Men in Chino.
Alejandro Tobarfuentes and his partner Jorge Navarretecorvalan were arrested on Saturday, June 8, 2024, after crashing their Mini Cooper head-on into a Toyota Camry while driving northbound in the southbound lanes after narrowly missing hitting an Orange County Sheriff’s deputy who had tried to pull their vehicle over. The driver suffered serious injuries.
Just before the June 2024 head-on collision, Tobarfuentes and Navarretecorvalan are accused of working together to break into a San Juan Capistrano home to steal a safe, designer handbags, and jewelry. When the two men were arrested, they identified themselves using Venezuelan identification cards which law enforcement determined were fake and they were in fact Chilean nationals.
Navarretecorvalan has been charged with one felony count of first-degree burglary, one felony count of evading a peace officer while driving opposite of traffic, one felony count of driving the wrong way on a divided highway causing injury or death, and one felony count of possession of a forged identification card. Tobarfuentes plead guilty in April to one felony count of first-degree burglary, one felony count of possession of a forged identification card, and one misdemeanor count of possession of burglary tools. He was sentenced to four years and eight months in state prison and was taken into CDCR custody in May. Navarretecorvalan is awaiting trial.
On Sunday, November 9, 2025, Tobarfuentes walked away from the Francisquito Conservation Camp in Los Angeles County, prompting a manhunt for the missing prisoner.
According to a CDCR press release, at approximately 10:00 p.m., Tobarfuentes was discovered missing from the camp. Staff immediately initiated an emergency count, confirming Tobarfuentes was not at the camp, and launched a manhunt for the missing prisoner.
As soon as the Orange County District Attorney’s Office was made aware of Tobarfuentes’ escape, OCDA investigators contacted CDCR’s Office of Correctional safety to provide critical intelligence assistance to assist in locating the escapee.
Tobarfuentes and Navarretecorvalan entered the United States through the Electronic System for Travel Authorization System (ESTA) Visa Waiver Program which is administered through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. For $21, applicants from countries which participate in the ESTA program can be granted unlimited access to the United States, up to 90 days at a time, for a two-year period. Applicants are granted access within 72 hours of applying for an ESTA visa waiver.  For years, Chile refused to provide the criminal background checks for their residents as required by the ESTA program requirements. In 2022, 350,000 Chilean nationals entered the United States through the ESTA visa waiver program without background checks.
In May 2023, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer began sounding the alarm regarding the loophole in the ESTA visa program which continues to be exploited by organized crime rings in Chile to enter the United States to commit residential burglaries throughout the United States.
“Crimefighting is no longer a fight against the criminals,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We are fighting the dangerous policies that have allowed organized criminal rings from Chile to exploit a loophole in the Department of Homeland Security’s ESTA visa waiver program that has resulted in a direct pipeline for thieves coming into the United States to steal and on the other front we are fighting the reckless policies promoted by Governor Gavin Newsom and the state Legislature that allow for endless opportunities for dangerous criminals to escape accountability while leaving the victims to suffer in silence. My office will literally go to the end of the earth to ensure justice is done and accountability is enforced, and if it means my investigators are tracking down prison escapees because CDCR let them walk away, we will continue to do it because we will stop at nothing to protect public safety.”
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Alejandro Tobarfuentes
ESTA VISA
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Chilean National Sentenced to Prison for Orange County Burglary after WrongWay Head-on Collision on Freeway Injured Innocent Driver During Police Pursuit is Now Wanted by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation after Escaping from Fire Camp
