Former Suzuki Accountant Charged with Embezzling $1.8 Million - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
2 min read
Former Suzuki Accountant Charged with Embezzling $1.8 Million
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 4, 2019
Home
Press
Former Suzuki Accountant Charged with Embezzling $1.8 Million
Case # 19NF2649
Yorba Linda Woman Charged with 89 Counts of Felony Embezzlement
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A former accounts receivable employee for Suzuki Motors of America, Inc. in Brea has been charged with 89 counts of felony embezzlement for stealing more than $1.8 million from the company over a five year period.
Bonnie Sue Mullion, 65, of Yorba Linda, is accused of stealing the money between 2012 and 2017 while she worked at Suzuki’s Southern California headquarters. Mullion worked for the company for nearly 40 years.
She is being held at the Orange County Jail on $1,828,683.13 bail, which represents the exact amount of the embezzlement.
Mullion was also charged with an enhancement of aggravated white collar crime over $500,000.
Suzuki discovered the embezzlement during an internal audit in 2017, and reported the theft to the Brea Police Department.
She faces a maximum sentence of 66 years, eight months in state prison if convicted on all counts.
“Employee theft costs U.S. businesses more than $50 billion a year, and many of those costs are passed down to consumers in the form of higher prices,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Embezzlement doesn’t just target large corporations; businesses from the mom and pop shop to international corporations that employ millions of people can all fall victim. Every business owner needs to be aware of the risks and institute checks and balances to prevent employee theft.”
Deputy District Attorney Nicholas Miller is prosecuting the case.
Tagged with:
Aggravated white collar crime
Bonnie Sue Mullion
Embezzlement
Fraud
Suzuki
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
Garden Grove Men Charged with Opening Business to Defraud California Employment Development Department of Nearly $500,000
Press
Santa Ana Police Officer Charged with Committing Workers’ Compensation Fraud
Press
Orange County District Attorney Establishes Coronavirus Scam Hotline
