Seven Los Angeles County Men, including Suspect who was Wearing a GPS Ankle Monitor, Charged in Violent Smash-and-Grab Robbery at Anaheim Hills Jewelry Store that Ended in Multiple Collisions During Getaway, Injuring Innocent Bystanders - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
14 min read
Seven Los Angeles County Men, including Suspect who was Wearing a GPS Ankle Monitor, Charged in Violent Smash-and-Grab Robbery at Anaheim Hills Jewelry Store that Ended in Multiple Collisions During Getaway, Injuring Innocent Bystanders
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
January 30, 2026
Home
Press
Seven Los Angeles County Men, including Suspect who was Wearing a GPS Ankle Monitor, Charged in Violent Smash-and-Grab Robbery at Anaheim Hills Jewelry Store that Ended in Multiple Collisions During Getaway, Injuring Innocent Bystanders
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 26, 2026
Case #: 26NF0415
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Seven Los Angeles County Men, including Suspect who was Wearing a GPS Ankle Monitor,
Charged in Violent Smash-and-Grab Robbery at Anaheim Hills Jewelry Store
that Ended in Multiple Collisions During Getaway, Injuring Innocent Bystanders
Defendants used stolen vehicle to ram into store entrance and hammers and crowbars to smash display cases, resulting in more than $800,000 in damage and stolen jewelry;
two juveniles are also accused in the Friday afternoon heist.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – Seven Los Angeles County men, including  second-striker who was wearing a GPS ankle monitor, have been charged with multiple felonies in connection with a violent smash-and-grab robbery at an Anaheim Hills jewelry store Friday afternoon using a stolen car to ram the store’s entrance and hammers and crowbars to smash the store’s display cases and steal hundreds of thousands of dollars in jewelry. The seven men and one juvenile were arrested after the thieves escaped in two stolen Dodge Chargers and then crashed in two separate multi-vehicle collisions in Fullerton, injuring several innocent bystanders, before being arrested.
The damage and stolen jewelry are estimated to be worth approximately $800,000. The adult suspects are currently facing maximum sentences between 13 years and four months to life in prison.
“If anyone thinks they are going to come into Orange County to steal and get away with it, they are in for a rude awakening,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “We will not tolerate lawlessness, violence, and criminals being imported from other counties to terrorize our business owners, our residents, and our visitors in the hopes of a quick payday. These crimes are about so much more than money; these are crimes of sophisticated violence that endanger the lives of customers and store employees, the law enforcement officers who pursue them, and every innocent driver who happens to be in the path of their attempted getaway. Crime doesn’t pay in Orange County isn’t just a slogan – it’s what we do, and these individuals are about to find out that we believe in accountability and the full weight of the law here in Orange County.”
“Our officers responded with remarkable coordination and professionalism.  Their swift response reflects the high standards this department brings to serving our city every day,” said Anaheim Police Department Chief Manny Cid. “I appreciate the strong partnership with the Fullerton Police Department, whose officers played an important role in helping bring this incident to a successful resolution.”
On Friday, January 23, 2026, at about 2:30 p.m., a stolen gray Nissan Rogue drove through the glass front doors of Classic Jewelers in Anaheim near the intersection of Santa Ana Canyon and Imperial Highway in Anaheim Hills, allowing five masked subjects armed with hammers and crowbars to enter the store. Using the crowbars and hammers to smash the glass display cases, they collected the jewelry into bags and trash containers. A loaded Bursa Firestorm .380 which was registered to the store’s owner was also stolen during the robbery.
The thieves escaped in two stolen Dodge Chargers which were parked outside the jewelry store entrance as getaway cars.
An Anaheim police officer observed a vehicle matching the description of one of the suspect vehicles near East Street and the SR-91 Freeway. The vehicle exited at Lemon Street, and the officer followed it northbound. At that time, the officer did not initiate a traffic stop, and no police pursuit was underway. As the Charger approached Orangethorpe Avenue, it was involved in a multi-vehicle traffic collision, injuring several people. The driver and three passengers ran from the vehicle. All four people who bailed out of the Charger were located by Anaheim police and arrested. Jewelry was recovered from the scene of the collision.
Shortly after that collision, Anaheim’s police helicopter located what they believed to be the second Charger involved in the robbery near the intersection of Harbor Boulevard and Brea Boulevard in the city of Fullerton. That Charger was later involved in a multi-vehicle traffic collision near the intersection of Euclid Street and Malvern Avenue in Fullerton. Officers arrived on the scene immediately after the collision that left several people injured. Two suspects believed to be involved in the robbery were immediately located and arrested. A handgun and jewelry were recovered from the scene.
Several hours later, Anaheim police located two additional suspects hiding in the backyards of two Fullerton homes. A ninth suspect, a juvenile, has not yet been arrested.
Khamair Elijahdonzell Toles, 20, of Los Angeles, has been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of the unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, one felony count of grand theft of a firearm, four felony counts of failing to stop at an accident hit and run with injury or death, two misdemeanor counts of hit and run with property damage, two felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property, and one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000. He faces a maximum sentence of 18 years in state prison if convicted on all charges. He is currently on probation for conspiring to commit grand theft of a firearm in Los Angeles County and he is being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $2 million dollars.
Toles’ twin brother, Khilen Isaiahdonzell Toles, 20, of Inglewood, has been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, one felony count of grand theft of a firearm, one felony count of failure to stop at accident hit and run with injury or death, ten felony enhancements of a secondary offense committed while released from custody, and two felony enhancements for acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. He faces a maximum sentence of 16 years in state prison if convicted on all counts. At the time of the jewelry store robbery, Khilen Toles was out on bail on charges of the unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle and felony reckless evading of a peace officer, both in Los Angeles County. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1.5 million bail.
Latrell Darell Matthews, 19, of Los Angeles, has been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of felony vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, felony grand theft of a firearm, one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000, and two felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. Matthews faces a maximum sentence of 13 years and four months if convicted on all charges. He is currently on probation for a commercial burglary he committed in San Bernardino County and is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $2 million bail.
Leontry Errick Gipson, 23, of Los Angeles, been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of felony vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, felony grand theft of a firearm, one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000, one felony enhancement of personal use of a deadly weapon, and two felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. Gipson, who has one prior strike under California’s Three Strikes law is on federal supervised release for committing a federal robbery. He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years if convicted on all charges. Gipson is currently being held in lieu of $2 million bail.
Deondre Tiree Jones, 23, of Los Angeles, is charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving stolen vehicle or equipment, one felony count of grand theft of a firearm, 18 felony enhancements of secondary offense committed while released from custody, one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000, and two felony enhancements for acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. Jones, who has two prior strikes under California’s Three Strikes law for two Los Angeles County robberies, was out on bail and was wearing a GPS ankle monitor at the time of the jewelry store robbery for a robbery with a firearm, and a residential burglary involving evading police, both of which occurred in Los Angeles County. He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted on all charges. Jones is currently in custody at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $3 million bail.
Jose Martinezcolindre, 24, of Inglewood, has been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of felony vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, felony grand theft of a firearm, one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000, and two felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. Martinezcolindre faces a maximum sentence of 13 years and four months if convicted on all charges. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1 million bail.
Tylaind Keonsemaj Brown, 20, of Compton, has been charged with one felony count of second degree robbery, one felony count of felony vandalism with damage of $400 or more, three felony counts of unlawful taking of a vehicle, three felony counts of buying or receiving a stolen vehicle or equipment, felony grand theft of a firearm, one felony enhancement for personal use of a deadly weapon, one felony enhancement of property damage over $200,000, and two felony enhancements of acting in concert with two or more persons to take or destroy property. Brown faces a maximum sentence of 14 years and four months if convicted on all charges. He is currently being held at the Orange County Jail in lieu of $1 million bail.
Deputy District Attorney Katherine Johnson of the HIT Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Deondre Tiree Jones
HIT
Jose Martinezcolindre
Khamair Elijahdonzell Toles
Khilen Isaiahdonzell
Latrell Darell Matthews
Leontry Errick Gipson
Tylaind Keonsemaj Brown
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 3 =
Recent Posts
Press
Final Fugitive Arrested in Las Vegas and Charged in Irvine Home Invasion Robbery that Left Residents Held at Gunpoint and Duct Taped
