MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Author
Chase Healy
Published
April 25, 2025
Home
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: April 23, 2025
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
MEDIA ADVISORY
2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony
Combating Revictimization:
Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
The 2024 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony, held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, is an annual gathering to honor victims and listen to survivors tell their stories of overcoming and reshaping their lives – and how the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, alongside our law enforcement partners and victim advocates continues to fight for victims’ rights.
2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Ceremony
Combating Revictimization:
Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Tuesday, April 29, 2025, at 10 a.m.
Orange County Crime Victims Monument
District Attorney’s Office Courtyard
300 North Flower Street
Santa Ana, CA 92703
This year’s speakers include:
• Jacki Chalabian Jernigan, sister of Dr. Janine Rose Chalabian who was murdered by her husband. Dr. Chalabian left behind a 3-year-old and a 7-year-old.
• Susan Montemayor Gutierrez, widow of David Montemayor, who was kidnapped and killed in a plot orchestrated by six defendants to steal money from the Buena Park businessman. He left behind a wife and three children, 7, 9, and 11.
• Kate, mother of John Doe #3 of 17 John Does who were sexually abused by their male babysitter. Their abuser was sentenced to 707 years to life. Current law would allow him to be eligible for parole at the age of 50 years old after serving 20 years in custody.
• Patricia Wenskunas, Founder/CEO of Crime Survivors, Inc.
• Lita Mercado, Waymakers
• Irvine Police Chief Michael Kent, President of the Orange County Chiefs of Police and Sheriffs Association
• Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer
Orange Police Department Officer Lavance Redd will perform the National Anthem and the Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Pipes & Drums Band will perform Amazing Grace.
Any person who may protest the Crime Victims’ Rally in person will be directed to a designated public space where true expression is welcome.
Media interviews can be arranged immediately following the ceremony.
Facebook Live Stream will be available at
https://www.facebook.com/OCDAToddSpitzer
###
Tagged with:
Crime Victims' Rights Ceremony
Media Advisory
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Orange County Law Enforcement Officials to Hold Press Conference on Residential and Commercial Burglary Eradication Efforts
