Judge Denies People’s Motion to Dismiss Case against Newport Beach Surgeon and Girlfriend Accused of Drugging, Sexually Assaulting Women - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
8 min read
Judge Denies People’s Motion to Dismiss Case against Newport Beach Surgeon and Girlfriend Accused of Drugging, Sexually Assaulting Women
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
June 5, 2020
Home
Press
Judge Denies People’s Motion to Dismiss Case against Newport Beach Surgeon and Girlfriend Accused of Drugging, Sexually Assaulting Women
Case # 18HF1291
Orange County District Attorney declared conflict in September 2019 and sent the case to the state Attorney General; but Attorney General then directed Orange County to continue the prosecution.
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An Orange County Superior Court judge today declined to grant the People’s request to dismiss the charges against Newport Beach orthopedic surgeon and reality television star and his girlfriend who are accused of drugging and sexually assaulting several women. The People argued to the Court that they could not legally and ethically proceed with prosecuting the case due to insufficient evidence to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt.
Grant Robicheaux, 39, and Cerissa Riley, 33, face life in state prison if convicted of all charges.
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer ordered a comprehensive review of People v. Robicheaux and Riley following the state Attorney General’s Office’s refusal to take the case in September 2019 after Spitzer declared a conflict due to the possible perception that this case had been tainted by politics.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office made the request to dismiss the charges on February 7, 2020 after a three-month complete case re-evaluation, which included a review of thousands of photographs, tens of thousands of text messages, hundreds of hours of audio recordings, and thousands of pages of transcripts of interviews with alleged victim interviews, witness interviews, and depositions. A complete review of the evidence had not been done by the prior District Attorney administration.
The review exposed significant exculpatory evidence along with substantial discrepancies between audio recordings of interviews with the alleged victims and reports produced by a District Attorney investigator. That investigator has been placed on administrative leave.
“We have represented to the Court on multiple occasions that we do not have the evidence to prove this case beyond a reasonable doubt, and therefore we cannot legally, ethically, and morally proceed with the prosecution of this case,” said Spitzer. “My sworn duty is to pursue justice and ensure that the rights of victims and defendants are protected, and we are reviewing the Court’s ruling to determine the next steps for this case. It is my commitment to those obligations that prompted me declare a conflict in this case in September 2019, and when the state Attorney General directed me to continue handling the case, it is those obligations that prompted me to direct a complete re-evaluation of this case. This was the first time all of the evidence was reviewed. The results of that review were unequivocal – we lack the evidence necessary to prove these charges beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. As a career-long advocate for victim’s rights and given the facts that our thorough reevaluation revealed, it pains me that the further review– which I requested from the state Attorney General almost a year ago – will only delay this process for the victims in this case and force them to endure further trauma.”
On September 11, 2018, the former District Attorney filed initial charges in People v. Robicheaux and Riley, eight months after a search warrant was executed on Robicheaux’s Newport Beach home. At the time the charges included assaults on two women.
Robicheaux was charged with nine felonies, including rape by use of drugs, oral copulation by use of anesthesia or a controlled substance, assault with intent to commit a sexual offense, four counts of possession of a controlled substance for sale, and two counts of possession of an assault weapon. He was also charged with sentencing enhancements of personal use of a firearm during a health and safety code violation.
Riley was charged with seven felonies, including rape by use of drugs, oral copulation by use of anesthesia or a controlled substance, assault with intent to commit a sexual offense, and four counts of possession of a controlled substance for sale. She was also charged with knowingly vicariously armed with a firearm.
Robicheaux faced a maximum of 40 years in state prison if convicted of all charges. Riley faced a maximum of 30 years and eight months in state prison.
On October 17, 2018, additional charges were filed involving five additional women who came forward as a result of the intense media coverage on the case.
Robicheaux was charged with an additional eight felonies, including three counts of kidnapping with the intent to commit a sexual offense, three additional counts of rape by the use of drugs, one additional count of assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense, and one count of forcible rape.
Riley was charged with an additional six felonies, including three counts of kidnapping with the intent to commit a sexual offense, two additional counts of rape by the use of drugs, one additional count of assault with the intent to commit a sexual offense.
Following the Attorney General’s decision to return the case to Orange County, Spitzer assigned two veteran sexual assault prosecutors to conduct a top to bottom review of the case. Over three months, the two prosecutors reviewed every piece of evidence in the case.
The De Novo review included:
Thousands
of photographs, videos, and chats from computers.
Hundreds of hours
of audio recordings.
Thousands of pages
of documents.
Tens of thousands
of text messages between the defendants over four years.
Thousands
of text messages between defendants and others, including alleged victims.
Thousands
of conversations on Bumble, Tinder, Facebook, and other social media services.
Hundreds of emails
including from alleged victims, defendants, police, and potential leads.
Thousands
of pages of transcripts of alleged victim interviews, witness interviews, and depositions.
Following its comprehensive review, the de novo review team recommended to the OCDA executive team that all charges should be dismissed. Based on the complete review, the OCDA executive team unanimously concurred that the People could not meet their legal burden of proving the charges beyond a reasonable doubt.
Tagged with:
Anasthesia
Assault
Assault Weapon
Cerissa Riley
Grant Robicheaux
Kidnapping
Rape
Rape by use of Drugs
Sexual Assault
Sexual Offence
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
