Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Who was Subject of Orange County District Attorney Warning to Public has Been Recaptured in Mexico, Returned to Custody in Orange County - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Who was Subject of Orange County District Attorney Warning to Public has Been Recaptured in Mexico, Returned to Custody in Orange County
Author
Greg Risling
Published
March 27, 2024
Home
Press
Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Who was Subject of Orange County District Attorney Warning to Public has Been Recaptured in Mexico, Returned to Custody in Orange County
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: March 27, 2024
Greg Risling
Public Information and Affairs Administrator
Office: 714-347-8435, Cell: 657-303-5239
media@ocdapa.org
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Ike Nicholas Souzer
Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Who was Subject of
Orange County District Attorney Warning
to Public has Been Recaptured in Mexico,
Returned to Custody in Orange County
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A weeklong manhunt for an extremely dangerous and violent criminal who was the subject of a public warning by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office after he walked away from a Santa Ana halfway house has ended with Ike Nicholas Souzer being arrested in Rosarito, Mexico today. He is once again in custody in Orange County.
Ike Nicholas Souzer, 20, was arrested in Rosarito, Mexico by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Mexican officials acting on information from the Orange County District Attorney’s undercover AB 109 Task Force that Souzer had crossed into Mexico near the San Ysidro/Mexico border.
Souzer was released from custody on Wednesday, March 20, 2024 after he pleaded guilty to one count of felony vandalism and was sentenced to 90 days in county jail (essentially credit for time served) by Orange County Superior Court Judge Larry Yellin and placed on formal probation for two years.
Prosecutors strongly objected to the 90-day credit time served sentence by Orange County Superior Court Judge Larry Yellin, arguing Souzer’s prior criminal history, which includes stabbing his mother to death when he was 13 years old, attacking three correctional officers while incarcerated, and manufacturing and possessing a shank while being housed at the Orange County Jail, should require him to serve out the remaining two years in custody for making and possessing a shank in the jail last year.
In 2021, Orange County Superior Court Judge Gary Pohlson, over the objection of prosecutors, reduced felony charges to misdemeanors and gave Souzer 160 days credit time served for attacking three correctional officers while he was incarcerated.
In October 2023, prosecutors had objected to a three-year split sentence after Souzer was convicted by a jury of making and possessing a shank in the jail last year. Instead of the three years in custody sentence prosecutors had argued for, Orange County Superior Court Judge Michael J. Cassidy sentenced Souzer to one year custody time and two years supervised release. With 50 percent good time/work time credit, he was released from custody just three months later, in January 2024.
Just days after his release in January 2024, Souzer was arrested by the Orange Police Department for spray painting graffiti on a freeway underpass underneath the 55 freeway in Orange and giving officers a false name.
Following his release from custody on Wednesday, March 20, 2024, personnel from Project Kinship, which has spent years advocating for Souzer’s release from custody, transported Souzer from the Orange County Jail to a transitional housing location in Santa Ana. Once he arrived at the house, he left and never returned. Souzer also failed to notify his probation officer of his whereabouts in violation of the terms of his formal probation.
After he failed to report to Orange County Probation, the Orange County District Attorney’s undercover AB 109 Task Force launched an intense manhunt to locate Souzer and bring him back into custody.
In April 2022, Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer also issued a warning to the public about Souzer after he escaped from Project Kinship’s Santa Ana office following his release on electronic monitoring from jail. After a countywide manhunt, the Orange County District Attorney’s AB 109 Task Force tracked Souzer down on Easter at a homeless encampment in Anaheim and arrested him.
“My prosecutors have spent years and years trying to do everything they can to keep this violent criminal behind bars, and at every turn, the very judges who are elected to protect public safety have done little to do so and instead have given him break after break after break,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This is not someone who deserves a break; he has turned every opportunity to turn over a new leaf into a new opportunity to break the law and defy law enforcement. He did not simply walk away and forget to check in with his probation officer. The second he was out of custody he set a plan in motion to flee to a foreign country in yet another attempt to escape the consequences of his actions. I am grateful for the tireless work of the men and women of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office AB 109 Task Force, Organized Crime Unit and DMAT Team, as well as the Orange County Probation Department, the Santa Ana Police Department, the Anaheim Police Department, the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol and the Mexican authorities and for their collaboration and cooperation to once again track down this violent and dangerous threat to public safety.”
###
Tagged with:
Ike Souzer
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 7 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Warns Public About Extremely Dangerous and Violent Criminal Once Again at Large After Walking Away from Halfway House
Press
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody, Convicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail
Press
Man who Stabbed his Mother to Death at 13 Years Old, Previously Escaped from Custody,  Indicted on Felony Charges he Manufactured a Weapon in Jail - Ike Souzer has violent history of attacking correctional officers; Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer issued a public warning about Souzer  after he escaped in April after being released to halfway house on electronic monitoring
