Unlicensed 19-year-old Driver who led Orange Police on a Chase at more than 100 mph before Killing Three Passengers in Fiery Crash is Charged with Murder - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Unlicensed 19-year-old Driver who led Orange Police on a Chase at more than 100 mph before Killing Three Passengers in Fiery Crash is Charged with Murder
Author
Mario Gross
Published
July 14, 2022
Home
Press
Unlicensed 19-year-old Driver who led Orange Police on a Chase at more than 100 mph before Killing Three Passengers in Fiery Crash is Charged with Murder
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date:  July 14, 2022
Case#: 22CF1742
PRESS RELEASE
Kimberly Edds
Public Information Officer
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@da.ocgov.com
Unlicensed 19-year-old Driver who led Orange Police on a Chase
at more than 100 mph before Killing Three Passengers
in Fiery Crash is Charged with Murder
SANTA ANA, Calif. – An unlicensed 19-year-old driver who led Orange police on a brief police pursuit at more than 100 miles per hour before crashing and killing three passengers, including a 14-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy, was charged today with three felony counts of murder. Three teenage passengers were also ejected during the crash, but survived.
Azarie Dupree Fuller, 19, of Exeter, has also been charged with one felony count of evading while driving recklessly and causing death, three felony counts of child endangerment by a caretaker, one misdemeanor count for driving without a valid license, and an infraction for speeding more than 100 mph.
He faces a maximum sentence of 45 years to life plus 14 years if convicted on all counts. Fuller, who remains hospitalized, is scheduled to be arraigned on August 4, 2022. His bail is set at $3,550,000.
On Saturday, July 9, 2022, at around 2:47 a.m., Fuller is accused of coming to a screeching halt in a Nissan Altima near the back of an Orange Police Department vehicle stopped in a turn lane of West Lincoln Avenue just west of Glassell Street. Two officers, including a police trainee, were inside the police car.
Fuller is accused of making a U-turn, turning his lights off, and driving more than 100 miles per hour with an Orange police officer and his trainee in pursuit. Less than a mile after the chase began, Fuller is accused of leaving the road and crashing into multiple poles. The Altima erupted into flames and all seven people in the vehicle, including Fuller, were ejected from the car.
Dayanara Rebolledo, 14, Dominic McGinley, 17, and Gustavo Castro, 26, were killed. Three other passengers, including two 14-year-olds and a 17-year-old, were injured in the crash, but survived.
“This 19-year-old had no regard for the lives of anyone on the road that night – not for the lives of his friends, the lives of the two police officers who tried to stop him, or even his own life,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Two children and a young man lost their lives and they didn’t have to die. And two police officers will have to live the rest of their lives knowing that they did everything they could to save them – and it wasn’t enough to stop someone who was hell-bent on death and destruction. These deaths don’t just destroy individual families; they destroy entire communities.”
Deputy District Attorney Brian Orue of the Homicide Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for the original press release.
###
Tagged with:
Azarie Dupree Fuller
Car Chase
Murder
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 4 =
Recent Posts
Press
20-year-old Woman Charged with Murder after Running Over Man She Believed Tried to Run Over Cat
Press
Repeat Drunk Driver Driving Under the Influence Sentenced to 15 Years to Life for Murder of Six-Year-Old Girl Playing on Sidewalk
Press
Aliso Viejo Man Sentenced to Life Without the Possibility of Parole plus 84 Years and Four Months to Life for Murdering Father, Father’s Girlfriend, Attempting to Kill Two Roommates
