Orange County District Attorney’s Office to Honor, Empower Victims at 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Media Advisory
Press
3 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office to Honor, Empower Victims at 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally
Author
Jose Morfin
Published
April 21, 2022
Home
Press
Media Advisory
Orange County District Attorney’s Office to Honor, Empower Victims at 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally
We will never leave your side
SANTA ANA, Calif. – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is hosting its 2022 Crime Victims’ Rally on Monday, April 25, 2022 beginning at 10 a.m.
The event, held as part of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, is an opportunity to honor victims and listen to survivors tell their stories of how they are moving forward and reshaping their lives – and how they continue to fight for victims’ rights.
2022 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rally
We will never leave your side
Monday, April 25, 2022
10 a.m.
Orange County Crime Victims Monument
District Attorney’s Office Courtyard
300 North Flower Street
Santa Ana, CA 92703
In person attendance is restricted to invited guests and credentialed members of the media.
This year’s speakers include:
Patricia Wenskunas, Founder/CEO of Crime Survivors, Inc.
Ronetta Johnson, Director, Waymakers
Jenner Silva, son of murder victim Eliu Gramajo who was killed on Father’s Day in 2016. Mr. Silva will be accompanied by Senior Deputy District Attorney Janine Madera.
Carol, Samuel and Richard Gomez, mother and uncles of murder victim Jesse Gomez who was killed in 2018. The Gomez Family will be accompanied by Deputy District Attorney Harris Siddiq.
Lynette Duncan, daughter of Aubrey Duncan and sister of 18-year-old Denise Duncan who were killed in 1977. Her mother was also shot, but survived. Ms. Duncan will be accompanied by Senior Deputy District Attorney Marc Caress.
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer
Pastor Simon Moon of Irvine Onnuri Church will perform the National Anthem.
The Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs Pipes & Drums Band will perform
Amazing Grace
.
The event will also be livestreamed on the Orange County District Attorney’s Office Facebook page.
Any person who may protest the Crime Victims’ Rally in person will be directed to a designated public space where true expression is welcome.
Tagged with:
Crime Victim's Right's week
Media Advisory
Victim's Rights
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 7 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY: 2026 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony - Driven to Despair: The Deadly Devastation of Driving Under the Influence
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY 2025 Orange County Crime Victims’ Rights Ceremony Combating Revictimization: Rebalancing the Scales of Justice and Restoring Hope
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
