Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
7 min read
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Author
Timothy Tizon
Published
February 18, 2026
Home
Press
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: February 18, 2026
Case #: 25WF5665
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Registered Sex Offender Charged with Kidnapping 13-year-old
Orange County Girl, Repeatedly Raping Her is Captured in Guatemala
Wanted fugitive is in custody as part of a multi-jurisdictional effort between the FBI and Legat’s Office in Guatemala, the FBI’s Orange County Resident Agency, the U.S. Department of Justice Office of International Affairs, Guatemala’s Policia Nacional Civil / Transnational Anti-Gang Task Force, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office,
the Anaheim Police Department, and the Westminster Police Department.
SANTA ANA, Calif. –
A registered sex offender charged with kidnapping a 13-year-old Orange County girl and repeatedly raping her over several hours has been captured in Guatemala as part of a multi-jurisdictional effort to bring the wanted fugitive to justice.
Since December 2025, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the U.S. Department of Justice Office of International Affairs, the FBI’s Orange County Resident Agency, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, and the Westminster Police Department, with the assistance of the Anaheim Police Department, and Guatemala’s Policia Nacional Civil / Transnational Anti-Gang Task Force (TAG) have been working to track down Brian Estuardo Verbena-Martinez, 34, of Anaheim.
On December 5, 2025, Verbena-Martinez is accused of driving next to a 13-year-old girl who was walking on a street in the City of Westminster and asking her if she needed a ride. Verbena-Martinez is accused of becoming more and more aggressive until the girl got into his car.
Over the next several hours, Verbena-Martinez is accused of sexually assaulting her in multiple locations, including in several parking lots and his apartment while other children were home, before finally dropping the girl off at her friend’s home in Garden Grove.
Westminster police identified Verbena-Martinez as the suspect in the 13-year-old’s kidnapping and rape and with the help of the FBI, Verbena-Martinez was located in Guatemala and arrested last week.
Verbena-Martinez has been charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit a sex offense, one felony count of forcible rape, one felony count of sexual penetration of child under 14 years of age by force, one felony count of forcible oral copulation with a minor under the age of 14 years old, and three felony counts of lewd act upon a child under 14. He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted on all charges.
Verbena-Martinez is a registered sex offender after being convicted in 2019 in Los Angeles County of arranging to meet a minor with the intent to engage in sexual conduct.
“The crimes alleged against Verbena-Martinez are beyond horrific and something the young victim in this case must tragically endure,” said Akil Davis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office.  “This is the third announcement of a fugitive returned to Orange County this year from countries including Mexico, Vietnam and Guatemala, based on the successful relationship with the FBI, our law enforcement partners in Orange County, our foreign counterparts and the U.S. Department of Justice.  The FBI will continue to assist local police when fugitives flee the state of California to evade capture.”
“Our message is clear: If you commit a serious crime in our city, you will be pursued and held accountable. We will work hand in hand with our law enforcement partners to find you, no matter where you go, and bring you to justice,” said Westminster Police Chief Darin Lenyi. “We thank all agencies involved for their dedicated and coordinated efforts in this case.”
“The pursuit of justice knows no borders, and we will continue to go to the very ends of the earth to carry out our mission to secure accountability and safeguard public safety,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “The men and women of the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, along with our dedicated local and federal partners, work day in and day out to ensure that individuals who commit crimes in Orange County, like this child predator, know that it is a matter of when and not if that they will be captured and brought to justice.”
Deputy District Attorney Tom Farnell of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Click here
for full press release.
Tagged with:
Brian Estuardo Verbena-Martinez
Sexual Assault
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 2 + 8 =
Recent Posts
Press
Former Orange County Cheerleading Coach Convicted of 23 Felony Counts for Molesting Ten Young Girls Erick Kristianson is also charged in Florida with exposing himself to three young athletes he coached, sexually assaulting one of them.
Press
Man Convicted of Molesting Two Children, Arranging to Have Four-Year-Old Child Drugged, Brought to Orange County Motel to Molest Her
Press
Santa Ana Church Leader Sentenced to 45 Years to Life for Sexually Assaulting Three Young Girls He Met at Church
