Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other California District Attorneys in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access for Inspections of Cell Towers, Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations, and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
5 min read
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other  California District Attorneys in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million  Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access  for Inspections of Cell Towers, Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations, and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees
Author
Chase Healy
Published
January 5, 2026
Home
Press
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other  California District Attorneys in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million  Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access  for Inspections of Cell Towers, Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations, and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Date: January 5, 2026
Case #: 30-2025-01534268-CU­BT-CJC
Kimberly Edds
Director of Public Affairs
Office: 714-347-8405, Cell: 714-504-1917
media@ocdapa.org
Orange County District Attorney’s Office Joins 8 Other
California District Attorneys
in Settling Civil Case with Verizon Wireless for $7.7 Million
Following Statewide Investigation into Failure to Allow Access
for Inspections of Cell Towers,
Other Aboveground Storage Tank Violations,
and Failure to Pay Hazardous Materials Permit Fees
SANTA ANA – Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, along with 8 other District Attorneys across California, announced the Orange County District Attorney’s Office has reached a $7.7 million settlement with Cellco Partnership DBA Verizon Wireless, a Delaware Corporation.  This settlement resolves allegations that the company violated state environmental laws regulating hazardous materials release and response plans, hazardous materials permits, and above ground petroleum storage tanks.
Verizon Wireless is the largest provider of mobile telephone services in the United States. The company owns and operates thousands of cell sites throughout the state where hazardous materials and above ground petroleum storage tanks are used to power emergency generators and backup systems. These materials can potentially cause fires and explosions, release toxic chemical air contaminants, and are potentially corrosive. For these reasons, items stored at these locations above a threshold quantity are classified as hazardous and require permits along with detailed reporting and proper hazardous materials management under California law.
Reporting documents are designed to minimize health and safety impacts resulting from accidental release of hazardous materials. These requirements exist to ensure that first responders, environmental regulators, and public safety officials have accurate information about hazardous materials stored at commercial sites in the event of an emergency. The plan must include an inventory of hazardous materials, a site map, an emergency response strategy, and an employee training guide.
“As prosecutors, we have an absolute responsibility to protect the environment and the residents of Orange County from toxic chemicals and other hazardous waste. Companies that cut corners to break the law and endanger our environment in order to save on their bottom line will be held accountable,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “This case reinforces the urgent need for stronger compliance measures, and I am incredibly proud of the environmental crimes investigators and prosecutors in my office as well as those in other District Attorney’s offices whose diligent work brought these environmental violations to light.”
The investigation, which was led by the District Attorney Offices of Orange County, San Bernardino County, and the Los Angeles City Attorney, found that Verizon failed to properly report hazardous materials, train on hazardous materials, allow on-site inspections, and pay permit fees for multiple site locations going back to 2019.
After prosecutors notified Verizon of these violations, they cooperated fully with prosecutors and took steps to pay all owed permit fees, correct all outstanding violations and implement policies and procedures to ensure future compliance.
Under the stipulated final judgment, Verizon will pay a total of $7,700,000.  This includes: $7,125,000 in civil penalties, $375,000 in Supplemental Environmental Compliance Projects, and $200,000 in investigative costs.
The Orange County District Attorney’s Office was joined by the District Attorneys of Los Angeles, Imperial, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, and Ventura counties along with the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office in this lawsuit.
Click here
for full press release.
###
Tagged with:
Consumer & Environmental Protection
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 3 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer Issues Statement on Federal Charges Filed Against Former Orange County Prosecutor and Current Orange County Judge Israel Claustro for Defrauding California’s Workers’ Compensation Program
Press
Buena Park Man on Probation for Attacking Coworker with Metal Pipe Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty For Killing Pregnant Dog by Stringing Animal on Rope and Driving Until Dog’s Neck Snapped
Press
Anaheim Woman Charged with Felony Animal Cruelty and Felony Animal Abuse for Throwing Malnourished, Flea Infested Poodle in a Plastic Bag Over Eight-Foot Fence
