Montebello Man Charged With Twelve Felonies in Connection with 2012 Kidnapping and Rape of Child - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
3 min read
Montebello Man Charged With Twelve Felonies in Connection with 2012 Kidnapping and Rape of Child
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
October 8, 2019
Home
Press
Montebello Man Charged With Twelve Felonies in Connection with 2012 Kidnapping and Rape of Child
District Attorney’s Office to Hold Joint Press Conference Friday with Santa Ana Police Department and the California Attorney General’s Office to Discuss Cold Case
Santa Ana, Calif. – Twelve felony charges have been filed against a Montebello man for kidnapping and raping a child under the age of 11 years old in Santa Ana in 2012.
Francisco Javier Lopez, 45, of Montebello has been charged with one felony count of kidnapping to commit a sex offense, one felony count of oral copulation of a child under the age of 11, three felony counts of sexual penetration of a child under the age of 11, one felony count of sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 11, five felony counts of a forcible lewd and lascivious act with a child under the age of 14, and one felony count of dissuading a witness.
Lopez has also been charged with four sentencing enhancements of causing bodily injury to a child under 14 and aggravated kidnapping.
He faces life without the possibility of parole if convicted of all charges.
He is currently being held at the Theo Lacy Facility in Orange.
Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer and members of the prosecution team will join the Santa Ana Police Department and the California Attorney General’s Office at a joint press conference Friday to discuss how a statewide effort by local and state agencies led to Lopez’ capture.
Press Conference Details
Friday October 11, 2019
10 a.m.
Santa Ana Police Department Community Room
Located at the corner of Civic Center Drive and Boyd Way
Tagged with:
Dissuading witness
Francisco Javier Lopez
Kidnapping
Lewd Acts on a Minor
Press conference
Rape
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 8 + 6 =
Recent Posts
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Speaker McCarthy, Reps. Calvert, Kim, and Steel Address Crime Operation Hurting American Families
Press
MEDIA ADVISORY - Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer, Orange County Law Enforcement Officials to Hold Press Conference on Residential and Commercial Burglary Eradication Efforts
Press
Anaheim Man Charged with Kidnapping Junior High Student who was Walking Home from School - Girl let go after witnesses confronted man; defendant facing life in prison with possibility of parole if convicted.
