U.S. Forest Service Firefighter Charged with Possession of Child Pornography, Lewd Act on a Child - Orange County District Attorney
Scroll to top
Follow Us
–
Skip to content
Search for
Press
4 min read
U.S. Forest Service Firefighter Charged with Possession of Child Pornography, Lewd Act on a Child
Author
Lei Lani Fera
Published
July 2, 2020
Home
Press
U.S. Forest Service Firefighter Charged with Possession of Child Pornography, Lewd Act on a Child
Case # 20HF1029
Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims
Jacob Daniel Carothers
SANTA ANA, Calif. – A U.S. Forest Service firefighter has been charged with felony possession of child pornography and lewd acts with a child under the age of 14 that occurred in the City of Newport Beach. Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims.
Jacob Daniel Carothers, 38, of San Jacinto, was arrested July 1, 2020 by Newport Beach Police detectives.
Carothers, who has worked as a federal firefighter for the last 16 years, has been charged with one felony count of possession of child pornography and two felony counts of a lewd and lascivious act with a child under the age of 14. He faces a maximum sentence of 10 years and eight months in state prison if convicted on all charges.
Carothers was most recently assigned to the Cleveland National Forest.
On May 29, 2020, a woman called Newport Beach police to report that her 12-year-old daughter had been inappropriately grabbed by a man riding by on a bicycle two separate time while the girl and two friends were walking in swimwear on Balboa Peninsula.
The man, later identified as Carothers, fled the scene on his bike was found by police in an alley nearby. The investigation revealed a significant amount of pornographic photos and videos depicting children in Carothers’ possession.
Carothers was arrested by Newport Beach police on a warrant on July 1, 2020.
Carothers is scheduled to be arraigned on Monday, July 6, 2020 in CJ1. He is currently being held at the Intake Release Center on $100,000 bail.
“We rely on firefighters to come to our aid when our homes are on fire and our lives are at risk. We hand firefighters choking babies and expect them to breathe life back into them. We count on them to keep our homes from burning to the ground and prevent lifetimes of memories from being reduced to ash,” said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. “Unfortunately, not everyone who takes the oath to become a firefighter is worthy of having the public’s trust. Children enjoying a summer day at the beach with their friends should not have to worry about being assaulted by a predator, especially one who took an oath to safeguard lives.”
Authorities are asking for the public’s help in identifying additional potential victims. Anyone with information is asked to call Newport Beach Police Detective Kelley Maslin at 949-644-3776.
Deputy District Attorney Juliet Oliver of the Sexual Assault Unit is prosecuting this case.
Tagged with:
Child Pornography
Jacob Daniel Carothers
lewd and lascivious acts on a minor
Share
Latest Posts
Đường dây nóng tiếp nhận tin báo ẩn danh, biểu mẫu báo cáo trực tuyến của  Văn Phòng Công Tố Quận Orange kêu gọi cung cấp thông tin xảy ra vào ngày 21  tháng 5 năm 2026 liên quan đến sự cố vật liệu nguy hại tại công ty GKN  Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. ở Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Línea Directe de Denuncias Anónimas y Formulario de Denuncia en Línea de la Fiscalía del Distrito del Condado de Orange Solicitan Información Sobre el Incidente con Materiales Peligrosos Ocurrido el 21 de Mayo de 2026 en GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc., en Garden Grove
May 28, 2026
Press
Orange County District Attorney Anonymous Tip Hotline, Online Reporting Form Seeks Information Regarding May 21, 2026, Hazardous Materials Incident at GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, Inc. in Garden Grove
May 26, 2026
Press
Name*
Email*
Please leave this field empty.
Are You a Human? 9 + 5 =
Recent Posts
Press
Piano Teacher Sentenced to 100 Years to Life for Molesting Eight Young Girls, Using Students to Make Child Pornography During Music Lessons over Nearly Two Decades
Press
Man Charged with Child Abuse involving Four Children in Cypress
Press
Convicted Sex Offender Charged with Molesting Three More Girls he Met while Teaching Elementary School Literacy Program
